world were rounded up and marched into the Northern Kingdom. They were
pushed into Swan Lake, just beside the severely damaged Northern Palace.
The lake had been dried out by the Literary Army, making it a deep, muddy
crater, perfect to hold the civilians prisoner. By the time the lake was filled,
the sun had started its descent in the western sky. The Literary soldiers
pointed their captives’ attention to a large balcony of the palace.
Doors opened and the Masked Man appeared. His entire head was
covered in a mask made of rubies and jewels with only two slits for his eyes.
His raggedy clothes had been upgraded to a well-tailored suit. He wore a long
black cape with a collar that towered sinisterly over his head.
The Masked Man finally looked like the menacing ruler he had always
wanted to become.
His entrance was met with a thunderous rumble of booing and hissing,
which only escalated when the Queen of Hearts, the Wicked Witch of the
West, and Captain Hook joined him on the balcony. The Masked Man held
his hands out in front of him, embracing the noise as if it were applause.
“Now, now, now,” he said. “Is that how you address your new emperor?”
The title was not received well by his imprisoned audience. Many of the
civilians had stashed food in their clothing before being forced from their
homes, and rather than saving it, they threw it angrily at the Masked Man.
The self-appointed emperor was pelted with tomatoes, plums, and heads of
lettuce.
The civilians roared with laughter. Even the Wicked Witch of the West
cackled at the embarrassing scene. But the Masked Man wouldn’t let his first
moments as emperor become a mockery.
“SILENCE OR I’LL KILL YOU ALL!” the Masked Man yelled.
The food throwing stopped, and a tense hush fell over the dried-up lake.
He had already destroyed their villages and homes; there was no telling how
far he’d go to gain respect. A winged monkey brought the Masked Man a rag,
and he wiped the food off his clothing.
“From this day forward you will no longer be the people of your pathetic
kingdoms, but the property of this empire,” he announced. “Disrespect me
again, and I will not show you the same mercy as your weak kings and fragile
queens. Anyone who dares to cross me will not only lose their own lives, but
will first watch as I take their families’ lives as well!”
Children throughout the lake began to cry, and their parents held them
tightly. It seemed the darkest days were still ahead.
“I’ve brought you all here to witness the birth of a new era,” the Masked
Man preached. “But before we achieve a new future, the ways of the past
must be destroyed—and the leaders of the past are no exception!”
The Masked Man gestured to a large wooden platform below the balcony,
on the lawn between the palace and the dried lake. A very tall man in a long
black cloak climbed to the top of the platform and placed a large wooden
block in the center.
A dozen flying monkeys pulled a wagon out from behind the palace. It
carried all the former kings and queens of the fairy-tale world: Cinderella,
King Chance, Sleeping Beauty, King Chase, Snow White, King Chandler,
Trollbella, Empress Elvina, Rapunzel, Sir William, and even the young
princesses Hope and Ash. All the royals had their hands tied together and
were blindfolded and gagged with strips of white cloth.
The tall man on the platform withdrew a large silver axe from inside his
cloak. The civilians began screaming and shouting in horror once they
realized the purpose of it—the Masked Man was going to have the royal
families executed!
Although they couldn’t see, the kings and queens knew what was
happening by the sound of the terrified crowd. They fought against their
restraints, but they didn’t budge. The civilians desperately tried to climb out
of the dried lake to save their rulers, but they were kicked back into the mud.
The card soldiers stood around the lake’s perimeter and locked arms, forming
a wall to block them.
The Masked Man laughed wildly at all the terror he was causing. Winkie
soldiers pulled the royals out of the wagon and pushed them up the steps to
the platform, then stood guard around it. The cloaked executioner sharpened
his axe as he awaited his cue to begin.
“Start with the men, then the women, then the children,” the Masked Man
ordered. “Your Majesty, if you would please do the honors…”
The Queen of Hearts stepped to the edge of the balcony. With enlarged
eyes and a devious grin, she looked down at the distressed royals like they
were a delicious snack.
“OOOOFFFF WITH THEIR HEEEEEAAAAADS!” she roared.
The lake erupted in protest. The women cried desperate pleas for the
execution to stop; the men yelled profanities at the Masked Man for being so
cruel. The frightened royal families huddled together in a corner of the
platform and trembled.
The executioner selected King Chance to be his first kill. He grabbed him
by the arm and dragged him to the block. Cinderella and Hope screamed
through their gags when they realized he was no longer standing beside them.
The executioner forced Chance into a kneeling position and placed his
head on the wooden block. He held the axe above the king’s neck and
practiced swinging. With each swing, the civilians gasped, fearing it was the
fatal blow. Finally, the executioner raised his axe higher into the air than he
had raised it before. The pleas and screams from the helpless bystanders
multiplied; the royals knew it was only a matter of seconds before the king
lost his head.
The executioner brought the axe down—but as he did, he spun his body
so it sliced the platform floor instead of the king’s neck. Suddenly, the floor
caved in, causing the executioner and all the royals to fall through the
platform and disappear from sight. It was so unexpected, the panicked crowd
went silent—this couldn’t have been part of the plan.
“WHAT JUST HAPPENED?” the Masked Man screamed from the
balcony. “GET THEM OUT OF THERE!”
Just as the Winkie soldiers went to inspect the platform, three large
horses burst out from inside it! Porridge, Buckle, and Oats had been under
the platform the entire time. They were pulling a carriage with the
executioner and all the royals safely aboard. The platform had been a large
trapdoor!
“NOOOO!” the Masked Man screamed, and leaned over the balcony as
far as he could to get a better look.
To his horror, he saw Goldilocks on Porridge and Jack on Buckle! The
couple steered the horses and the carriage into the forest beyond the palace,
knocking over dozens of Winkie soldiers as they went. The execution had
turned into a rescue mission right before the Masked Man’s eyes!
Goldilocks glanced back at the rescued royals. “Is everyone all right?”
The royals moaned through their gags. Still blindfolded, they had no clue
what was going on. The executioner threw off his cloak—it had been the Tin
Woodman all along!
“Don’t fret, Your Majesties!” he said. “This is a rescue!”
The Tin Woodman sliced off the royals’ restraints with his axe.
“We’re not out of it yet!” Jack said. “Everyone stay low! This is going to
be a bumpy ride!”
Meanwhile, the elf, troll, goblin, and human civilians embraced one
another and cheered as their leaders got away. The Masked Man was so
furious, he was practically breathing fire. The visible skin around his eyes
turned so red, it matched the rubies in his mask.
“AFTER THEM! ALL OF YOU!” he ordered the Literary Army.
“DON’T LET THEM ESCAPE!”
The rescue party was chased through the forest by droves of Winkies and
card soldiers on horseback. The fleet of flying monkeys followed them from
the smoky sky. As the royals removed their blindfolds and looked around, an
escape didn’t seem likely—there was no way their carriage stood a chance
against the approaching Literary soldiers. Luckily, Jack and Goldilocks had
friends with a few tricks up their sleeves.
The Winkies and card soldiers were gaining speed and moving closer to
the carriage. Goldilocks nodded to Jack and he whistled. Suddenly, Sir Grant
and Sir Lampton appeared with dozens of their men on horseback. They
formed a protective circle around the carriage of royals and knocked the
approaching Literary soldiers to the ground.
“Sir Lampton, is that you?” Cinderella said.
“Hello, Your Majesty,” he said. “I wish the circumstances were different,
but I’m very pleased to see you’re alive!”
Sir Grant and Sir Lampton’s men weren’t alone—they shared their horses
with the Lost Boys from Neverland. When they were close enough, Tootles,
Nibs, Curly, and the Lost twins jumped off their horses and landed in the
carriage with the royals. The Lost Boys pulled slingshots out of their pockets
and launched rocks at the Winkies and card soldiers, hitting them in the face
and knocking them off their horses.
“This is fun!” Tootles said.
“Let’s make it a game!” Curly said.
“Ten points for the big square ones, and five for the gold guys,” Nibs
decided.
“Deal!” the Lost twins said.
The Lost Boys giggled so hard watching the Winkies and cards fall off
their horses that tears streamed down their rosy faces. They hadn’t had this
much fun since they left Neverland.
Thanks to the Lost Boys and Sir Grant and Sir Lampton’s men, the
number of Literary soldiers trailing the carriage had significantly lowered.
But there were still plenty of Winkies and cards left to be concerned about.
Luckily, the rescue party was close to the next phase of their plan.
As they raced farther into the forest, Goldilocks spotted an arrow sticking
into the side of a tree—it was a sign!
“Jack, I see the arrow!” she said. “We’re almost to the Merry Men!”
Porridge, Buckle, and Oats were getting tired and starting to slow down,
so Jack was relieved to hear it. He whistled toward the treetops as loudly as
he could.
“WAS THAT THE WHISTLE WE’VE BEEN WAITING FOR, OR DO
MY EARS DECEIVE ME?” shouted a boisterous voice from the trees.
Jack rolled his eyes and whistled again.
“THERE IT IS AGAIN! OUR TIME HAS COME, MERRY MEN!
ATTACK!”
Robin Hood and his Merry Men swung down from the treetops on ropes
like monkeys on vines. Little John, Alan-a-Dale, and Will Scarlet slammed
into the Winkies and cards. They knocked them to the ground and stole their
horses. Robin Hood flipped through the air, landing in the carriage with the
royals. He took off his hat and bowed to the queens.
“HAVE NO FEAR, LADIES, FOR THE TRUE HERO HAS
ARRIVED!” he said. He winked at them flirtatiously and kissed Rapunzel’s
hand, which Sir William didn’t appreciate.
“Gosh, I really hate that guy,” Jack whispered to Goldilocks.
Robin Hood reached for the bow and quiver of arrows fastened to the
back of his vest and joined the Lost Boys in shooting Winkies and cards off
their horses. After hitting a few, the Prince of Thieves grew cocky and started
showing off for the queens, striking ridiculous poses as he fired.
“DON’T BE INTIMIDATED, LOST BOYS,” he said, and rubbed
Tootles’s head. “BATTLE IS MEANT FOR MEN.”
Tootles snapped his slingshot against Robin Hood’s buttocks, causing him
to squeal like an injured swine.
“Tootles, save it for the enemy!” Goldilocks reprimanded.
“Sorry, it slipped!” Tootles said.
By now, the Winkies and card soldiers had all been knocked to the ground
or had retreated to the Northern Palace. However, the chase wasn’t over yet.
Piercing screeches echoed through the forest as the flying monkeys
descended upon the rescue party.
Jack whistled again. “Peter, it’s your turn!” he yelled.
Like a rocket, Peter Pan flew out from underneath the carriage where he
had been hiding. It happened so fast, he startled the royal families. The Boy
Who Never Grew Up handed two bags of firecrackers to Little John and
Alan-a-Dale, and matches to Will Scarlet. The Merry Men tossed the
firecrackers to Will Scarlet, and once he lit them, Peter quickly scooped them
up. The boy flew above the treetops and threw the firecrackers at the
approaching flying monkeys.
Each explosion shocked and discombobulated the flying monkeys, and
they fluttered to the ground. Peter and the Merry Men continued their
firecracker relay until all the flying monkeys had dropped from the sky.
“Take THAT, you overgrown bats!” Peter chuckled.
Trollbella watched Peter Pan in astonishment. Her heart was beating so
fast, if it had wings, she could have joined him in flight.
“It’s like I was beheaded and went to heaven!” she said. “He’s just like
Butterboy—but he floats and sparkles! I didn’t know a boy so wonderful
could exist! Stop it, Trollbella! Pull yourself together! You promised yourself
you wouldn’t love again until the world was in better condition!”
Still, the Troblin Queen tried to catch the trails of fairy dust Peter left as
he flew beside the carriage.
Finally free from the Masked Man’s Literary Army, the royals and their
rescuers could all breathe a little easier. Goldilocks and Jack took the reins of
their horses and steered them into a sharp left, leading the party straight into
the Dwarf Forests.
“Where are we going?” Snow White asked.
“Someplace the Masked Man and his army will never find us,” Goldilocks
said.
“Now, everyone keep as quiet as possible,” Jack instructed. “The less
noise we make, the better.”
The royals obeyed his instructions. The rescue party spent the rest of the
day traveling deeper and deeper into the Dwarf Forests. The kings and queens
glanced around nervously at the thick forest, as most of them had never been
to these parts before. They kept waiting for something frightening to appear,
but the forest that infamously housed the most dangerous creatures and
criminals in the fairy-tale world seemed rather empty.
They reached a hilly part of the woods just before nightfall. Goldilocks
stopped the procession in front of a large boulder sticking into the hillside.
She covered her mouth and made a peculiar shape with her hands.
“Coo-KOO, coo-KOO!” she called.
The birdcall echoed through the forest. The party waited anxiously in
silence. A moment later, a faint birdcall came from somewhere beyond the
boulder.
“Coo-coo-KA, coo-coo-KA.”
The boulder was slowly rolled away by two monstrous black bears,
revealing a hidden tunnel in the hillside. The sight of the bears frightened the
royals and they held one another closely.
“Don’t be scared, they’re with us,” Goldilocks whispered. “If anyone has
reservations about bears, it’s me.”
The carriage moved into the tunnel, and the men on horseback followed.
Once the entire rescue party was inside, the bears rolled the boulder back so
the entrance was hidden again. The rescue party traveled down the tunnel for
several hundred feet and then entered a cavernous mine.
The ground was covered in cart tracks that stretched into more tunnels
going deeper into the hillside. Thousands of fireflies covered the stalactites
above, illuminating the dark cave like earthy chandeliers. Dozens of sheets
and quilts were draped over stalagmites to make several tents.
The royal families were very surprised to see they were among hundreds
of other refugees. Families of humans, elves, trolls, and goblins were
dispersed throughout the mine. There were also several groups of animals:
foxes, wolves, badgers, bears, and birds of every kind. Even the animals were
taking shelter during this terrible time—which explained why the forest was
so empty.
There were a few familiar faces among the hideaways as well. Hagetta
and Friar Tuck were cooking a meal together in a large cauldron. The
Traveling Tradesman, the old geezer who sold Jack the magic beans that
grew the infamous beanstalk, sat against a stalagmite as he counted a
collection of chicken feet he kept in a small sack.
Queen Red Riding Hood was in the back of the mine, quietly sitting alone.
Her granny and the Little Old Woman from the Shoe Inn sat nearest to her,
knitting quilts to make more tents. Slightly, the Lost Boy who had turned into
a baby thanks to a youth potion, was taking a nap in a bassinet beside the
older women. Blubo, a young flying monkey, was curled up in the bassinet
beside him. Thanks to Granny’s bad eyesight, she thought he was an
extremely furry infant.
Being the pets of high-maintenance women, Clawdius and Lester had
become fast friends when they were brought to the mine. The animals also
napped together, taking turns using the other as a pillow.
Rook Robins and his father sat in a group with others from their village.
Since he had nearly gotten the royals killed a year earlier, seeing them filled
Rook with unbearable guilt. He excused himself from his group and took a
walk through the tunnels to be alone.
The rescue party’s entrance caused quite a commotion. Everyone was so
happy to see the royal families were alive that the mine vibrated with
emotional cheers. The refugees surrounded the carriage and welcomed their
leaders to the only sanctuary left in the fairy-tale world.
“Thank the heavens you’re all right!” Hagetta said.
“All our prayers have been answered!” Friar Tuck said.
Jack climbed down from Buckle and then carefully helped Goldilocks off
Porridge, an act that became increasingly difficult as Goldilocks’s pregnant
belly grew every day. It was only a matter of time before they welcomed their
child into the world; they only wished a better world awaited it.
Robin Hood and the Merry Men eagerly helped the queens down from the
carriage, kissing their hands as they did so, which greatly annoyed their
husbands.
“Where are we?” Sleeping Beauty asked.
“We’re in an abandoned dwarf mine in the West Hills of the Dwarf
Forests,” Goldilocks said. “It’s not the extravagance you’re used to, but we’ll
be safe here. Very few people know it exists and it’s miles from the parts of
the woods being burned down.”
“We were taking shelter in a small cave in the Northern Mountains, but as
you can see, our numbers have grown,” Jack said.
“Where are all these people and creatures from?” King Chase asked.
“All over the kingdoms,” Goldilocks said. “They’re the few who managed
to escape the Masked Man’s army. Just like you, they’ve lost everything they
had.”
The royals were very sympathetic to the people around them, but clearly
had hesitations about sharing the mine with the creatures from the forest.
“I assure you, everyone and everything in this mine is safe,” Sir Lampton
said. “We’re all united by the same enemy and must stay so if we want to
reclaim our world.”
The royal families looked among themselves and nodded.
“You won’t find any objection from us,” Empress Elvina said on the
royals’ behalf. “We need to put aside our differences from the past, otherwise
there’ll be no hope for the future.”
Since the elves had a long history of being ostracized by the other
kingdoms, the empress’s words spoke volumes. They had already lost so
much; unity was something they couldn’t afford to lose next.
“Where are all the fairies?” Rapunzel asked.
“In hiding, hopefully,” Goldilocks said.
“Is it true the Fairy Council was turned to stone?” Trollbella asked.
“We don’t know,” Jack said with a long sigh. “Shortly after the kingdoms
were attacked, Alex and Conner went to the Fairy Kingdom to find the
council and get help, but they never came back.”
Everyone in the mine looked to the ground with worried eyes and a heavy
heart. This was the most distressing news of all. Without the Fairy Council or
the Bailey twins, how would they ever defeat the Masked Man and his
Literary Army? The future looked even bleaker than it had before.
“Alex was right,” Cinderella said. “The Fairy Council should have
listened to her. Had they gone after the Masked Man like she requested, none
of this would have happened.”
“What about Charlie or that monster who took him?” King Chandler
asked. “Has anyone tracked down their whereabouts?”
All the refugees turned to Red, but the queen remained silent. She didn’t
have the strength to relive it.
“Red and the Lost Boys found him at Morina’s cottage,” Goldilocks said.
“The witch has imprisoned him inside a magic mirror. They also found the
missing children from the Corner and Charming Kingdoms—they’re under
some sort of spell that’s draining their youth.”
With everything else that had happened, the royals had almost forgotten
about the missing children.
“Can’t we plan a rescue for them, too?” Rapunzel asked.
“The children have been cursed with very dark magic,” Hagetta explained.
“Moving them from their beds may take their life force away completely.”
“But what about Charlie?” King Chandler asked. “How do we get him out
of the mirror?”
“We can’t,” Red said weakly. “Once you’re imprisoned in a magic mirror,
it’s nearly impossible to be freed. It takes powerful magic to put someone
inside a mirror, but even more powerful magic to take someone out.”
“She’s right,” said Snow White. “My stepmother spent her whole life
trying to free the man from her mirror. She was as determined and capable as
anyone, and even she needed the Wishing Spell to do it.”
The Charming brothers didn’t want to believe it, but there was no
escaping the truth. There wasn’t a silver lining in sight—for any of their
worries.
“They’re no longer missing if we know their location,” Cinderella said.
“We must find comfort where we can, otherwise we’ll worry ourselves to
death. God willing, the children and Charlie will be among many things we
salvage in the months ahead.”
“Yes, but how do we begin salvaging anything?” Sir William asked.
“Have we ever faced a threat with such disadvantages?”
It seemed every question was only followed with more terrible news, so
everyone in the mine went silent. No one wanted to accept defeat, but the
little hope surviving in their hearts was dying fast. If something didn’t happen
soon, the fairy-tale world as they knew it would be gone forever.
The tense silence was broken by the Traveling Tradesman, who had been
biting his tongue up to this moment.
“Ah-hum.” He coughed.
All the refugees in the mine rolled their eyes at the old geezer. Clearly, he
was very unpopular among the survivors. When no one gave him the floor,
the old man tried to get their attention again.
“Ah-HUM!” He coughed even louder.
Hagetta was the only one with enough patience to acknowledge him.
“Yes, what is it, old man?” she asked.
“May I offer a suggestion?” the Traveling Tradesman asked.
His question was immediately followed by a chorus of loud sighs. Every
time the Tradesman opened his mouth he only filled their heads with
nonsense. But, to be fair to the old man, Jack raised his hands and silenced
the exasperated crowd.
“Unless someone else has a suggestion to share, there’s no point in
discrediting his,” he said.
Red grunted dramatically. “Everyone cover your ears,” she said. “I’ve
heard crazy is contagious in small quarters.”
Despite the rudeness he received from his peers, the Traveling Tradesman
went to the center of the mine so everyone could see him, and he offered
them his suggestion.
“Perhaps we’re all looking at the situation from the wrong perspective,”
he said. “In times as troubling as these, let’s not torture ourselves further with
questions we don’t have the answers to—let’s ask the rocks!”
He proposed the idea as if everyone else was supposed to know what he
was talking about.
“ASK THE ROCKS?” Robin Hood said. “MERRY MEN, I BELIEVE
THE STRANGE OLD MAN IS OFF HIS ROCK-ER!”
Robin Hood laughed wildly at his own joke, but no one joined him. The
Tradesman was frustrated that he had to explain himself.
“Not just any rocks!” he said. “In my possession, I happen to have
precious premonition stones that are directly connected to the will of the
fates!”
The wacky old man reached for his stones, but they were missing from his
belt. He spun around in circles, looking all over the ground for where he
might have dropped them.
“Where on earth are my precious stones?” he demanded. “Has anyone
seen them? They were in a skunk-skin sack.”
All five of the Lost Boys turned bright red.
“Oops,” Tootles said. “We might have used those during the rescue.”
“You did WHAT?” the Tradesman yelled. “Those rocks are thousands of
years old! They’re meant for predicting the future, not slingshots!”
“Sorry, we didn’t mean to!” Tootles said.
“They didn’t look like special rocks to us,” Curly said.
“You really shouldn’t leave your stones lying around,” Nibs said.
“Yeah! There are kids in here!” the Lost twins said.
The Tradesman sat on the ground and wrapped his arms around his head.
“Now what am I supposed to use to predict the will of the fates?” he asked.
The Lost Boys checked their pockets.
“Would marbles work?” Tootles asked.
The Traveling Tradesman let out a deep, apprehensive sigh. “Very well—
hand them over.”
Tootles poured a small bag of colorful marbles into the Tradesman’s
shaky hands. He closed his eyes, rubbed the marbles together, and whispered
strange gibberish to them. Finally, he threw them on the ground in front of
him and carefully watched them bounce and roll into one another.
“Interesting,” he said. “Very interesting.”
The Tradesman hemmed and hawed as if the marbles were speaking a
language only he understood. It was much more of an ordeal than the
refugees were expecting. Curiosity got the best of them and they formed a
circle around him.
“What are the marbles saying?” Jack asked.
“Don’t be ridiculous—marbles don’t speak! They simply move as the
fates command,” the Tradesman said. “You see this gray one? Dull, dreary,
and stuck in the dirt—that represents us! See the blue one and the pink one,
moving together in perfect unison away from the gray—those must represent
the twins! Fear not, the Baileys are alive!”
A few of the refugees cheered—but quickly stopped when they
remembered the information was coming from an old geezer talking to
marbles.
“But where are they?” Jack asked.
“They’re far away from us by now, most likely in the Otherworld—but
wait!”
All the refugees leaned in a little closer. Crazy or not, this was still the
most entertaining thing they had seen in weeks.
“See how the blue and the pink rolled toward the silver, yellow, purple,
and red? Now watch—the pink and blue are rolling back to the gray with the
silver, yellow, purple, and red! Look, all the marbles have knocked the gray
out of the dirt! It’s a MIRACLE!”
The Tradesman leaped to his feet and threw his hands into the air in
celebration. The refugees were on pins and needles waiting for the message
to be interpreted. Even if the news was not as great as it appeared, the
Tradesman’s enthusiasm was infectious—they hoped this wasn’t the crazy
that Red was talking about.
“What does it all mean?” Jack asked.
“It means the twins will have to travel to places far, far away, but will
return with help and save our world!” the Tradesman said. “But this will
happen if, and only if…”
“Yes?”
“Worlds collide,” the Tradesman said with large, energetic eyes.
No one had a clue what the old man was talking about, but they were all
so desperate for something positive, they took it as a good sign. Red, on the
other hand, was not as enthusiastic.
“All I see is an old man who’s lost his marbles,” she said.
The other refugees slowly came to their senses, too. Just because this was
the closest thing to good news they had received didn’t make it credible.
“I agree with the old man,” Goldilocks announced. “It doesn’t matter what
the marbles say or don’t say—the Bailey twins have never let us down
before. Just because we haven’t heard from them yet doesn’t mean we should
give up on them. We have to have faith they’ll return with help.”
“But what do we do in the meantime?” Red asked.
“Wait,” Goldilocks said. “It’s all we can do.”

CHAPTER TWO
GROUNDED
Alex and Conner left their sixth-grade classroom and found a neighborhood
park where they could rest and form the next phase of their plan. It was an
hour or so before sunrise, and the night sky was lightening with every passing
minute. Everything was so quiet and peaceful, it was difficult to imagine how
chaotic life was back in the fairy-tale world and what awful things their
friends might be enduring.
The closer it came to sunrise, the more people drove past the park on their
early work commutes. Naturally, Alex had seen this many times before, but
every car she saw gave her a small thrill. It had been a long time since she’d
been back to the Otherworld, and it wasn’t until this moment that she realized
how much she missed it.
“It’s nice to see how little things have changed here,” Alex said. “The
fairy-tale world changes so much, I’ve never had a moment to catch my
breath.”
Conner was only half listening. He flipped through the pages of his short
stories and separated them into four stacks on the ground.
“Great, they’re all here!” he said. “‘Starboardia,’ ‘Galaxy Queen,’ ‘The
Ziblings,’ and ‘The Adventures of Blimp Boy’! Those are the stories with
characters that can help us! We’ll use the potion to travel inside the stories,
find the heroes, and then take them back to the fairy-tale world to help us
fight our uncle’s army.”
Alex had only agreed to her brother’s plan because their options were so
limited. The closer they got to actually going through with it, the more
doubtful she became. It was one thing to travel into the books of classic
literature, but an entirely different endeavor to go into short stories written by
her brother.
“Your stories sound more elaborate than I was expecting,” Alex said. “I
thought you wrote about our experiences in the fairy-tale world and just
changed all the names.”
“That’s how it started,” Conner said. “But after I got the hang of it, I
might have exaggerated things a bit and taken some liberties. All good
writers do—I think.”
“Liberties?” Alex asked fearfully. “Conner, what exactly are we getting
ourselves into?”
Conner waved it off like it wasn’t a big deal.
“Relax, there’s nothing more dangerous than what we’ve already been
through,” he said. “‘Starboardia’ is a pirate adventure, ‘Galaxy Queen’ is
about space exploration, ‘The Ziblings’ are a group of superheroes, and ‘The
Adventures of Blimp Boy’ follows a young archaeologist. It’ll be a piece of
cake.”
The summaries didn’t comfort his sister at all. The twins were lucky they
had survived their adventures over the years. If his stories were based on
those experiences, Alex wasn’t eager to relive any of them—especially if
they had been exaggerated by her brother’s warped imagination.
“Are you sure this is going to work?” Alex said. “I don’t mean to sound
like a snob, but maybe we should stick to published stories.”
“Stop worrying,” Conner said. “There are no evil enchantresses, no
dragons, no French soldiers, and no literary armies. All my characters are
based on people we know and love. They have the same bravery, intelligence,
and compassion as our friends—they’ll want to help us. We’ll be in and out
before the antagonists even show up.”
“What are we going to do with your characters after we bring them out?”
Alex asked. “Where are we going to keep them?”
Conner had been so worried about finding his stories, he hadn’t thought
about what they’d do after they found them.
“Good point,” he said. “We need a place they can stay while we recruit
the characters from the other stories. We also need someone to keep an eye
on them so they don’t wander off—someone we trust completely, who won’t
totally freak out about what we’re doing.”
The twins thought about the perfect place and the perfect person for the
job, but the candidates were few and far between. It had to be someone in the
Otherworld who already knew about the fairy-tale world, someone who had
seen magic before and wouldn’t be alarmed by it. The person had to be
responsible enough to supervise several fictional characters and have enough
space to host them. Alex and Conner came to the same conclusion at the
exact same time. They looked at each other and knew they were thinking the
same thing—there was only one person qualified for the task.
“Mom!” the twins said in unison.
The resolution was immediately followed by an avalanche of guilt.
“I can’t remember the last time I talked to Mom,” Alex said.
“Neither can I,” Conner said. “She’s probably worried sick.”
“We’ve been so busy trying to save the fairy-tale world, we never had a
chance to call home and check in,” Alex said.
“We’re good people, but terrible children,” Conner said.
“Regardless of whether she wants to help us or not, we need to visit her so
she knows we’re alive,” Alex said. “Let’s just hope she cooperates.”
The twins were in complete agreement. Conner gathered his stories, and
they headed out of the park. Alex followed her brother but was confused by
the direction he was walking in.
“Where are you going?” she asked him.
“Home,” he said.
“But home is that way.”
“No, home used to be that way,” Conner said. “Mom and I moved in with
Bob after they got married, remember?”
Alex’s guilt was doubled by another avalanche—she was so out of the
loop, she didn’t even know where her own family lived anymore. Whenever
she thought about her mom and stepdad in the Otherworld, she always
imagined them living in the rental house they had moved into when her and
Conner’s dad passed away. Perhaps the Otherworld had changed more than
she thought.
“I’m the worst daughter in the world,” she said. “This isn’t going to be a
fun visit, is it?”
“Nope,” Conner said. “Mom’s gonna be pretty upset when she sees us,
and I won’t blame her.”
They reached the edge of the park and Conner came to a stop.
“Aren’t you forgetting something else?” he said.
“What?” Alex asked.
Conner looked his sister up and down, like it was obvious. “Alex, you’re
dressed like the Tooth Fairy,” he said. “You can’t go walking around the
suburbs like that.”
“Oh,” she said. “You’re right—one second.”
With a quick spin, Alex transformed her sparkling dress and shoes into a
T-shirt, jeans, and sneakers.
“I forgot how comfortable Otherworld clothes are,” she said.
“You look like you again,” Conner said. “Now come on, the quicker we
do this, the better.”
They walked through the neighborhood streets until they found Sycamore
Drive. By now the sun had risen and Alex could see all the spacious homes
on the street. She was delighted her mom and Bob lived in such a lovely
neighborhood. Alex knew which house was theirs before Conner pointed it
out because the flower beds were covered with their mom’s favorite roses.
“Hopefully they’ll be home,” Conner said. “They’re usually starting a day
shift or ending a night shift around this time.”
The twins walked up the curved path and knocked on the door. A few
moments later, their stepdad answered. Bob was still in his pajamas and on
his first cup of coffee. His eyes were puffy, like he had just woken up. The
doctor did a double take when he saw Alex and Conner standing behind the
door.
“Good morning, Bob,” Alex said cheerfully. “Nice to see you again!”
Bob rubbed his eyes and scratched his head. He wasn’t convinced he was
awake yet.
“Um… hi,” he said. “Well, this is a surprise.”
“Is Mom home?” Conner said. “We have to talk to her.”
“Yeah, she’s upstairs getting ready for work. Boy, she’ll be very glad to
see you,” he said. “Charlotte, you have visitors!” he called into the house.
The twins heard a window open above the porch. They looked up and saw
Charlotte looking down at them from the second story, already dressed for
work in her blue scrubs. Her face had many expressions at once—shock that
she was looking at her children, relief that they were all right, joy that they
had finally come home—but it settled on anger.
“Hi, Mom,” the twins said apologetically.
“INSIDE. NOW,” Charlotte said, and slammed the window.
Conner gulped. “We’re off to a good start.”
Before they knew it, Alex and Conner were seated on the living room sofa
and their mother was furiously pacing in front of them. She was so upset, she
couldn’t form the words to scold them. Bob sat in an armchair beside the
twins. He peered cautiously over his coffee, afraid for their safety.
“The new house is really nice,” Alex said. “I really like how you
decorated—”
“Quiet,” Charlotte said. “Do either of you have any idea what you’ve put
me through? I’ve been so worried, I haven’t slept in months!”
“We’re really sorry, Mom,” Conner said. “We didn’t mean to worry—”
“Less talking, more listening,” she said. “Do you know what it’s like to
go to the grocery store and be asked ‘How are your children doing?’ and have
absolutely no clue yourself? Do you know what it’s like to tell a school
district ‘My children have transferred schools’ with no proof of a transfer?
Do you know what it’s like to hear nothing from your children for weeks at a
time except ‘Sorry we didn’t call you back, Mom, we had to fight a dragon,’
or ‘Got to go, Mom, an army is invading the castle’?”
Charlotte glared at her children as she waited for an answer, but the twins
stayed silent. They didn’t know if they were allowed to speak or if she was
just pausing for dramatic effect.
“For your sake, I hope your future children show you more respect and
courtesy than mine have shown me,” Charlotte went on. “Because not
knowing if your children are dead or alive in another dimension is the worst
feeling you could ever have. It’s worse than fighting enchantresses, it’s worse
than slaying dragons, and it’s worse than battling armies, I promise you!”
Tears came to Charlotte’s eyes and she looked away from the twins to
wipe them with a tissue. The guilt the twins had felt before was nothing
compared to the guilt they felt now. It tightened their stomachs and chests so
much, they thought their bodies might implode.
“Mom, we weren’t neglecting you on purpose,” Alex said. “We’d like to
explain, if you give us a chance. Something really terrible has happened and
we need your help—”
“I don’t care what’s happened!” Charlotte said. “There will always be
another crisis in the fairy-tale world to tend to! Your family should come
first! That’s what your father and I raised you to believe, or so I thought.”
“You did—and we do,” Conner said. “But so many people’s lives are in
danger—”
“What about your lives?” Charlotte asked. “Since you were thirteen years
old, you’ve been so busy saving other people, you’ve never taken care of
yourselves. Do either of you even know what today is?”
Alex and Conner looked at each other, but neither knew what she was
referring to. They quickly went through a mental list of possible holidays or
special occasions that it could be, but both were blanking.
“Is it your and Bob’s anniversary?” Conner asked.
Charlotte looked more heartbroken than ever. “No, today’s your fifteenth
birthday,” she said.
The twins were shocked. How could they not have known it was their
birthday? Suddenly, everything Charlotte said made perfect sense. They were
so occupied with saving other people, they were missing out on their own
lives.
Charlotte glanced at her watch and then grabbed her purse and car keys
off the rack by the front door.
“I have to go to work,” she said. “Both of you are grounded.”
Conner glanced at Alex. “Wait, can she still do that?” he asked.
“You bet I can!” Charlotte said. “I want both of you to go upstairs to your
bedrooms and stay there until I get home.”
“Do I even have a bedroom here?” Alex asked.
Charlotte was offended she had to ask. “Of course you do,” she said.
“When I get back, we’re going to go out for a nice family dinner to celebrate
your birthday.”
“Mom, that sounds nice, but we’re really pressed for time,” Alex said.
“Alexandra Bailey, it’s the least you can do for me,” Charlotte said.
“After we have a nice family dinner and discuss normal family things, we can
talk about what you need help with—but only after. Conner, please show
your sister to her bedroom.”
Charlotte left for work, leaving her children in very uncomfortable
silence. They were feeling so many things—guilt, shame, disappointment,
anxiety—they didn’t know which emotion to settle on.
Bob tried to break the tension, but even he didn’t know what to feel.
“So…” Bob said. “Happy birthday?”

CHAPTER THREE
THE FALLEN EMPEROR
The civilians were so thankful their kings and queens had escaped
execution, they all stood a little taller in the dried-up lake. However, to avoid
being the target of the emperor’s building frustration, they kept as still and
quiet as possible.
Inside the ruins of the Northern Palace, in a large chamber that Queen
Snow White and King Chandler once ruled from, the Masked Man paced
feverishly in front of his new throne. The large chair had been built from the
pieces of all the other thrones of the kingdoms the Literary Army had
conquered.
“I don’t understand how your idiot soldiers didn’t know the platform was
rigged!” he yelled. “Why didn’t they check it?”
The Wicked Witch of the West, the Queen of Hearts, and Captain Hook
stood before the Masked Man. The new emperor had fallen into a daring
routine of blaming the literary villains when something didn’t go exactly as
planned.
“Our soldiers?” the Wicked Witch of the West said. “You’ve been
commanding our armies since we arrived! If you wanted them to inspect the
platform before the execution, you should have ordered it!”
The literary villains had endured about as much as they could stand from
the Masked Man. It was thanks to them he was emperor in the first place, but
instead of fulfilling his end of their bargains, the Masked Man was bossing
them around as if they were his servants. Power had clearly gone to his head,
and that was far enough.
“I’ve heard enough about how we have failed you!” the Queen of Hearts
barked. “It’s time you coughed up what you promised us!”
“You promised me Peter Pan!” Captain Hook shouted.
“And you promised me the silver slippers!” the Wicked Witch of the
West hollered.
“And you promised me HEADS!” the Queen of Hearts roared.
The Masked Man didn’t have an ounce of empathy for the literary
villains. Their frustration was nothing compared to the rage boiling inside of
him.
“You will get what I promised once the royals have been recaptured and
executed,” the Masked Man said. “You agreed to make me an emperor, and I
won’t be a true emperor until all my adversaries have been destroyed!”
Footsteps echoed through the throne room. The Masked Man and the
literary villains turned to see Mr. Smee sprinting toward them. The pirate was
sweating, wheezing, and shaking—like he had been running from something
terrible.
“Excuse me, Your Excellency?” Smee panted.
“This better be important,” the Masked Man said.
“It’s about the creature in the dungeon, sir,” Smee said.
The creature responsible for turning the Fairy Council into stone was kept
in the dungeon in the very same cell that once contained the Evil Queen. It
was a monster of legendary power, so the Masked Man had ordered all of
Captain Hook’s pirates to patrol the dungeon and keep an eye on it.
“Yes, what about it?” the Masked Man asked.
Mr. Smee was trembling so much, his knees rattled together. No matter
how he put it, he knew the emperor would be furious when he heard the
news.
“It escaped!” Smee said. “Somehow it managed to take off its blindfold
while it was in its cell! When the pirates went to feed it, they looked it in the
eye and were turned into stone!”
Like steam from a teakettle, so much anger built up inside the Masked
Man that a thunderous howl erupted from his mouth. He wrapped his hands
around Smee’s throat and strangled the pirate. The day had turned into an
epic disaster, and unfortunately for him, it was about to get much worse.
A horn was blown outside to announce the return of the Literary soldiers
who had been sent after the royal families. The Masked Man dropped Smee
and bolted outside to the balcony. The Wicked Witch, the Queen of Hearts,
and Captain Hook followed him.
From the balcony, the Masked Man could see the Winkies and card
soldiers slowly emerging from the forest. They were all battered and bruised;
many couldn’t even walk without the help of another. They had come back
with far fewer horses than they left with. The flying monkeys descended from
the skies, but looked just as bad as the Winkies and cards, if not worse. They
were so discombobulated that many missed the balcony and smacked into the
walls of the palace.
Worst of all, there was no sign of the royal families anywhere. The
Masked Man grabbed the closest winged monkey by its vest and shook him
violently.
“WHERE ARE THE ROYAL FAMILIES?” he roared.
“They escaped!” the monkey screeched.
“HOW DID THEY GET AWAY? YOU OUTNUMBERED THEM TEN
TO ONE!” the Masked Man screamed.
“They had a very strategic plan we weren’t prepared for! They had backup
waiting in the woods! Men on horses, men in the trees, they even had a boy
who flew!”
The Masked Man felt like his heart had fallen out of his chest. If it
weren’t for his mask, they would have seen all the color drain from his face.
He prayed he had misheard the winged monkey and that his ears were
playing a cruel trick on his mind.
“Did you just say ‘they even had a boy who flew’?” he asked.
The winged monkey nodded. “Yes, sir,” it said. “He wore clothes made
out of leaves! He flew up from the trees and threw firecrackers at us!”
“PETER PAN!” Captain Hook growled. “You said he’d be trapped inside
the book until we retrieved him!”
The Masked Man threw the winged monkey on the floor and clutched his
chest. He felt like he was having a heart attack. Every time he thought the
situation couldn’t get worse, he was proved otherwise.
“No, this isn’t possible!” the Masked Man said. “If Peter Pan managed to
escape, that would mean my niece and nephew did, too!”
The Masked Man turned to the literary villains, and his fury quickly
dissolved into fear. The Queen of Hearts and Captain Hook were more
furious than he had ever seen them. With Peter Pan and the royal families out
of his reach, the Masked Man wasn’t capable of fulfilling his end of their
agreements. They had followed him into the fairy-tale world and given him
the use of their soldiers and cavalry for nothing.
“Listen, I can still give you what I promised,” he said. “I just need more
time!”
Captain Hook and the Queen of Hearts slowly moved toward him,
backing him into the railing of the balcony.
“LIAR!” the Queen of Hearts roared. “No royals, no HEADS!”
“And you can’t give me Peter Pan if you don’t have Peter Pan!” Captain
Hook said through a clenched jaw.
Afraid he was about to be knocked off the balcony, the Masked Man fell
to his knees and groveled at the Wicked Witch’s feet.
“I can still give you the silver slippers!” he pleaded. “Not all is lost!”
“I won’t be fooled by any more of your lies!” the Wicked Witch of the
West said. “Your reign ends today!”
The Wicked Witch of the West tapped the floor with her umbrella, and
two of her flying monkeys grabbed the Masked Man by the arms. They flew
him as high into the sky as they possibly could and dangled him above the
forest. The civilians in the dried-up lake alerted one another to the sight, but
no one knew what was happening.
“DON’T DO THIS!” the Masked Man cried. “YOU’RE MAKING A
MISTAKE! MY NIECE AND NEPHEW WILL DESTROY YOU
WITHOUT ME!”
“Our biggest mistake was trusting you!” the Wicked Witch of the West
shrieked. She tapped her umbrella again and the flying monkeys dropped the
Masked Man. He plummeted toward the earth, screaming the entire way
down, and landed somewhere deep in the forest.
“Look, the emperor has fallen!” The Wicked Witch of the West cackled.
It was obvious to the civilians that the literary villains had just staged a
coup. Now that the Masked Man was gone, the civilians wanted to cheer, but
the emperor’s death didn’t mean their troubles were over.
“If we aren’t getting what we came for, then what should we do now?”
Captain Hook asked. “Return to Neverland, Oz, and Wonderland?”
The literary villains thought it over, but now that they had seen the fairytale world with their own eyes, their own worlds weren’t that appealing. With
the Masked Man gone, they had unlimited power over the strange land, and
power is easily addictive when placed in the wrong hands. It seemed the
fairy-tale world had much more to offer them than their own worlds did.
“I rather like this world,” Captain Hook said. “There are no Lost Boys,
mermaids, or Indians to fight. And if Peter Pan is here, there’s no reason to
return to Neverland.”
“There are no White Queens, Mad Hatters, or Cheshire Cats to pester us,”
the Queen of Hearts said. “Why return to Wonderland when I have plenty of
heads to roll right here?”
“There are no wizards, Munchkins, or Good Witches to stand in our way,”
the Wicked Witch of the West said. “And I have more power here than the
silver slippers could have given me in Oz!”
The literary villains shared a menacing smile.
“Let’s stay in this world and rule the empire ourselves,” the Wicked
Witch said. “Perhaps if we work together, we’ll achieve even more than what
the Masked Man promised us.”
The villains turned their gaze to the civilians in the dried-up lake.
From the way the three villains glared down from the balcony, the
civilians knew the nightmare was far from over.…

CHAPTER FOUR
A NICE FAMILY DINNER
The Storybook Grill was a popular place for dinner during the week. By
seven o’clock each night, the diner was usually filled with families and
teenagers ordering their weight in Goblin Fries and Midnight Milk Shakes.
There were always loud and energetic crowds, and tonight was no exception.
However, the group in the booth at the very back did not match the
liveliness of the other patrons, so they stuck out like a sore thumb.
Cindy, Lindy, Mindy, and Wendy—four teenage girls recently reinstated
as the Book Huggers—somberly sipped milk shakes and shared a basket of
fries. The girls each had a copy of The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes by Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle in front of them, but none of them seemed very
interested in it.
“We should probably talk about the book if we’re going to be a book club
again,” Cindy said.
The other girls nodded, but no one was eager to start. The quartet had
recently taken a break from books to focus on other passions—well, passion
—and started the Conspiracy Club. However, that club only made them more
restless than they already were, and they had been advised to take up reading
again.
“Did anyone have a favorite passage they’d like to share?” Cindy asked.
“Or maybe a favorite character?”
All the Book Huggers were quiet, forcing Cindy to take charge.
“Lindy, let’s start with you,” she said.
Lindy was awkwardly hunched over her milk shake and staring off into
space when Cindy called on her. Wherever her mind was, it wasn’t on
Sherlock Holmes.
“Um… I liked the hound?” Lindy said.
“The Hound of the Baskervilles?” Cindy asked.
Lindy looked uncomfortably from side to side. “Was there more than
one?”
“Did you even read the book?” Cindy asked.
Lindy hunched lower than before and shamefully shook her head.
“Did anyone read the book this week?” Cindy asked.
The other Book Huggers slumped with embarrassment and shook their
heads as well. Cindy let out a long and frustrated sigh.
“We can’t revive our book club if we’re not going to read books,” she
said. “But if I’m honest, I didn’t read The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes,
either.”
“I started it,” Mindy said. “It was just so hard focusing on a fictitious
mystery when the real-life mystery has never been solved.”
The Book Huggers nodded in agreement. No matter how hard they tried to
inspire themselves with new interests, new hobbies, and new clubs, or by
resurrecting old clubs, the only thing consistently on their minds for the past
year was the disappearance of Alex and Conner Bailey.
“You’d think it’d get easier over time, but it doesn’t,” Lindy said.
“We only started asking questions about Alex because we were bored and
had read all the books in the school library,” Mindy said. “But every answer
only gave us more questions, and the more questions we had, the more
infatuated we became.”
“I’ve read books and watched television shows about people with real-life
obsessions, but I never thought I’d become one of them,” Lindy said. “It’s all
I think about when I’m awake, and all I dream about when I’m asleep.”
Wendy nodded—it was affecting her sleep, too.
“Bree Campbell knows something we don’t,” Cindy said. “But until one
of us gains telepathic powers—or waterboarding is legalized—I don’t think
we’ll ever get it out of her.”
“She’s been absent from school for almost two whole weeks!” Mindy
said. “I wouldn’t be surprised if she’s the next one to get ‘transferred to
Vermont,’ as they say.”
Life had become exhausting to no end for the Book Huggers. They felt
like mice stuck in a maze with no cheese.
“What are we going to do, girls?” Lindy asked the table. “I don’t want this
to affect the rest of our lives! I want to become a psychologist—not need a
psychologist!”
“I’ll never be a heart surgeon if I can’t focus in medical school!” Mindy
said.
“I’ll never win my first presidential debate if I can’t remember real
issues!” Cindy said.
Wendy pointed to the ceiling and made an X with her fingers—implying
she would never fulfill her dream of becoming an astronaut.
“It’s gone too far, ladies,” Cindy said. “This is just like Nineteen EightyFour, and there’s no use fighting Big Brother anymore. We have to pull
ourselves together while we still can. For the sake of our sanity and our
destinies, we have to forget about the Bailey twins.”
The Book Huggers raised their milk shakes and clinked them together.
They were ready to turn over a new leaf. The undertaking wouldn’t be easy,
but it was necessary if they ever wanted to live normal lives again.
Unfortunately, the Book Huggers’ noble venture was about to feel like the
punch line of a great cosmic joke.
The front door of the Storybook Grill swung open, and the Bailey twins
walked in with Charlotte and Bob. Wendy happened to glance up from her
milk shake right at that second and was the first to notice Alex and Conner.
For the first moments after seeing them, Wendy was certain she was
hallucinating. They had just been talking about the Bailey twins—it was way
too coincidental for them to be in the same diner at exactly the same time.
But the longer they stayed in her sight without disappearing, the more she
realized they weren’t a mirage—the real-life Alex and Conner Bailey were
right there! Wendy was paralyzed with shock. The color drained from her
face, and she couldn’t feel her arms or legs.
“I think we should actually read The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes,”
Cindy said. “Next week, we’ll come back to this diner and have a real
discussion about it, just like we used to.”
“I concur,” Mindy said. “But can we do it a week from tomorrow? I’m
getting my braces off a week from today.”
“Congratulations!” Lindy said. “Will you have to wear a retainer?”
Wendy began humming to get the other Book Huggers’ attention, but she
was drowned out by the noise of the diner.
“Just for the first six weeks, then only at night after that,” Mindy said.
“I was so relieved when I finally had mine taken off,” Cindy said. “It felt
like handcuffs had been removed from my mouth.”
“My dentist said I don’t need braces,” Lindy said. “It’s probably a good
thing—I wouldn’t have the patience for them.”
Wendy couldn’t believe they were talking about something so
meaningless when something so extraordinary was right in front of them. She
managed to regain feeling in one hand and lightly tapped Cindy on the
shoulder with it.
“Wendy, are you okay?” Lindy said.
“You look like you’re going to be sick,” Mindy said.
“Was there something in your Midnight Milk Shake?” Cindy asked.
Desperate for them to see what she was seeing, Wendy used resources she
hadn’t used since the first grade—spoken words!
“Alex… Conner… over there!” Wendy peeped.
Her voice was high-pitched and squeaky like a baby bird’s. The Book
Huggers were so shocked to hear her make a noise, it took them a second to
realize she had actually used words out loud and they had meaning. Once the
message was interpreted, they jerked their heads in the direction of the door
so fast that they pulled muscles in their necks. Once they all saw the Bailey
twins with their own eyes, the Book Huggers went as still and pale as Mount
Rushmore.
The twins were all eyes as they looked around at the diner’s fusion of
fairy-tale and 1950s decor. They knew Cinderella’s stepmother and
stepsisters had opened a restaurant after moving to the Otherworld, but this
was their first time seeing it.
Rosemary was in the middle of taking an order when she saw the Baileys
out of the corner of her eye. The waitress abandoned the customers in midsentence to greet her old friends.
“Well, look what the cat dragged in!” Rosemary said, and hugged the
twins.
“Hi, Rosemary,” Conner said. “This place looks great!”
“Are Petunia and your mom around?” Alex asked.
“Mother has the night off and Petunia got another job, working for a
veterinarian,” Rosemary said. “Good riddance, if you ask me—she was a
lousy waitress! I’ll be sure to tell them you stopped by! Are you coming for
dinner?”
“Yes,” Charlotte said. “Table for four, please.”
“Right this way,” Rosemary said.
The stepsister grabbed four menus and sat them in a booth directly next to
the Book Huggers. The girls quickly grabbed their copies of The Adventures
of Sherlock Holmes and covered their faces with them, but Alex and Conner
weren’t paying attention. The twins were so amused by all the art and
knickknacks throughout the diner, they didn’t even notice their former
classmates.
“How’s Cinderella doing?” Rosemary asked the twins once they were
settled in their booth.
“Well, actually—”
Alex was about to tell Rosemary the truth when her mother gave her a
stern look. Anything that might get them off the topic of nice family
discussion wasn’t allowed at dinner tonight.
“Just fine,” Alex said. “Hope’s growing like a weed.”
“Wonderful. Please give them my best,” Rosemary said. “I hope you
enjoy the food. When you’re ready to order, just wave me down—oh, we’re
out of the Beanstalk Salad tonight.”
Rosemary went back to the customers while Alex and her family looked
over the menu. It referenced so many people and places in the fairy-tale
world, it was absolutely aggravating not to talk about the current crisis. The
twins hoped their nice family dinner would end as soon as possible.
“So kids, what’s new?” Charlotte asked. “How are your friends doing?”
She was so calm and casual, Alex and Conner knew she wasn’t referring
to the truth. They shared a curious look, and it suddenly dawned on them
what their mother was doing. Their nice family dinner was a chance for Mom
to pretend they were a perfectly normal family, living perfectly normal lives.
The twins felt like they were in a play they didn’t have the script for.
“Good,” Conner said. “Um… Goldilocks and Jack are expecting their
first baby!”
“That’s wonderful,” Charlotte said. “Do they know if it’s a boy or a girl?”
She knew as well as he did that the fairy-tale world didn’t have
ultrasounds, but he continued playing her game.
“Nope,” Conner said. “I guess they’re waiting to be surprised.”
“Your father and I did the same thing when we had you,” Charlotte said.
“We weren’t sure if we were having two boys or two girls, we just knew
there would be two of you. Imagine our surprise when we had one of each—
we didn’t have to return any of the baby clothes.”
Conner found this fascinating. “Really?” he said. “What would you have
named us if we were two girls or two boys?”
“The firstborn was going to be an Alex no matter what,” Charlotte said.
“I’ve loved that name since I was a little girl—it was the name of my favorite
doll. But if Conner had been a girl, his name would have been Sarah.”
“What a coincidence! Before Margret passed away, we were planning on
having a baby, and if it was a girl, we would have named her Sarah, too,”
Bob said. “Were Alex and Conner an easy delivery?”
Charlotte let out a long laugh as the memory came to her.
“Giving birth was easy compared to the days that followed,” she said.
“Their grandmother was so excited to have grandchildren, she visited us
every day with someone new from the fairy-tale world. The first day she
brought Mother Goose, who almost mistakenly switched Conner’s bottle with
her flask! Thank goodness I was an overly protective first-time mom and saw
it happen! The second day we had the whole Fairy Council in the house.
They were lovely, but kept magically upgrading our belongings into nicer
things. By the time they left, we didn’t even recognize our house!”
The twins had never heard this story before and laughed just as hard as
Bob did. They could tell their mom enjoyed telling it as much as they enjoyed
hearing it.
“Those were good times,” Charlotte said with a bittersweet smile. “I miss
them.”
These were the moments of nice family discussion that Charlotte was so
desperate for. The Baileys hadn’t had them since the twins’ father died. There
was no talk of death or turmoil like in their usual conversations; they were
just a family laughing and sharing stories with one another.
As much as Alex wanted to continue hearing stories about their parents,
not addressing the issues at hand was eating her alive. Conner could feel the
impatience boiling inside his sister. He knew it was only a matter of time
before she ended their mother’s game of pretend.
“Mom, I’m sorry you haven’t had more moments to tell us stories like
that,” Alex said. “You’re right, you and Dad raised us to put family first and
we haven’t for a long time.”
“Thank you, Alex,” Charlotte said. “That means a lot.”
“But,” Alex said, “I can’t keep pretending everything is okay when we
know it’s not.”
Conner covered his face with his hands. “Oh boy, here we go,” he said.
“Alex, I asked you guys not to bring this up—”
“I’m sorry, but I have to,” Alex said. “Right now, a lot of people need our
help. I know Conner and I have given up a lot, and you’ve given up a lot by
association, but we don’t care what we’ll have to sacrifice if it saves our
friends and all the families like ours. We’re doing the right thing because
that’s also the kind of son and daughter you and Dad raised. So please—let
us.”
Charlotte looked at her children differently than she had all day. She
wasn’t glaring at them with frustration or anger, but with pride. She reached
across the table and held their hands with her own.
“I’m sorry,” she said. “I guess I’ve been a little selfish. All I want is for
you to have the same experiences every teenager gets to have before this time
in your lives is gone, but I forget there’s nothing normal about you. It doesn’t
matter what I want—you should be living the lives you were meant for.
Forgive me, it was just so difficult losing your father; I hate feeling like I’ve
lost you, too.”
“I’m sorry we’ve made you feel like you lost us,” Conner said.
“You’re my children, but other people’s heroes,” Charlotte said. “Any
mother would be lucky to be in my shoes, but that doesn’t mean they’re easy
to wear. Sometimes at the end of the day, I just have to pretend you’re both
asleep in your beds.”
Charlotte dabbed the corners of her eyes with her napkin. Alex and
Conner couldn’t blame their mom for wishing things were different—they
did, too. The twins put so much time and effort into ending people’s
suffering, they didn’t realize how much their own mother was hurting. But if
their mom was willing, she was about to become more involved in their lives
than she was prepared for.
“Now tell me what’s going on in the fairy-tale world,” Charlotte said.
“And how in the world am I going to help you with it?”
Alex and Conner were relieved they could continue discussing their plan.
Both opened their mouths to fill her in, but they were at a loss for words.
After all, it was a complicated thing to explain. So much of it involved their
uncle Lloyd, and they didn’t want to overwhelm their mom with news of an
evil brother-in-law.
“Long story short, a really terrible man has taken over the fairy-tale
world,” Conner said. “They call him the Masked Man.”
“How’d he take over?” Charlotte asked.
“He stole a potion from Grandma that turns every written work into a
portal to the world it describes,” Alex said. “He traveled into Alice’s
Adventures in Wonderland, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, and Peter Pan.
Somehow he recruited the Queen of Hearts, the Wicked Witch of the West,
Captain Hook, and all their minions and soldiers into a big Literary Army and
attacked all the kingdoms.”
“That sounds terrifying,” Bob said. “Those villains used to give me
nightmares when I was a kid.”
“They’re much worse in real life,” Conner said. “Imagine how scary you
thought they were, now double that image, cover it in butter, and leave it
outside for a week—that’s how frightening they really are!”
“Why can’t the Fairy Council do something? Why does it always have to
fall on your shoulders?” Charlotte asked.
“The Fairy Council has been turned to stone, and all the soldiers in all the
kingdoms are no match for the Literary Army,” Alex said. “If we don’t find a
way to stop them, no one will.”
Charlotte hated that so much responsibility had fallen on her children’s
young shoulders.
“For the record, I am not okay with you two fighting these guys,”
Charlotte said. “But how are you going to stop them?”
Alex nudged Conner. “Tell her your plan,” she said.
Conner didn’t appreciate his sister’s unenthusiastic introduction. “We’re
going to recruit our own army,” he said. “We’re going to use the same potion
to travel into my short stories and bring back my characters.”
Charlotte and Bob couldn’t believe what they were hearing.
“Oh my gosh!” Charlotte said. “Is that really the only thing you can do?”
“Trust me, I wish I could file a report at the Pentagon,” Conner said.
“Sometimes you’ve got to fight fire with fire.”
“I still don’t see how I fit into all of this,” Charlotte said.
The moment had finally come for the twins to tell her. It was such an
absurd request, the twins were afraid to ask. If she refused, they weren’t sure
who could help them.
“We need you to look after Conner’s characters as we bring them out of
his stories,” Alex said.
It was like someone pressed the Pause button on Charlotte and Bob.
Without breathing or blinking, they just looked at the twins with open mouths
and large eyes. They weren’t taking it well.
Conner waved his hand in front of their faces. “Are you still with us?” he
asked.
“Sorry,” Bob said. “It’s just—most parents of fifteen-year-olds only worry
about getting asked for money to go to the movies, or driving permits.”
Conner sat up excitedly. “Oh-my-God-Alex-we’re-old-enough-fordriving-permits!” he said in one breath.
“One crisis at time, remember?” Alex said. “So, Mom and Bob, can you
help us?”
Bob and Charlotte looked at each other and shrugged.
“If it’ll save the fairy-tale world, I won’t object,” Bob said.
“What kinds of characters are going to be in my house?” Charlotte asked.
“We just had the carpets cleaned.”
“Oh, nothing crazy—pirates, cyborgs, superheroes, mummies—the usual
fictional suspects,” Conner said under his breath. “So, does that mean you
guys are in?”
The twins held their breath. Charlotte was hesitant, but it might have been
more concerning if she were completely fine with the idea.
“All right,” she said. “It’ll be an adventure.”
The twins were so relieved, they sank a foot into their seats.
“Awesome!” Conner said.
“Fantastic!” Alex said.
Bob and Charlotte glanced down at the Storybook Grill menus, but it was
a very difficult conversation to follow with French fries and hamburgers.
They both pushed the menus away.
“You know what, I think I’ve lost my appetite,” Charlotte said. “Maybe
we should go home and I’ll cook something later.”
“I agree,” Bob said.
The twins weren’t going to argue. They left the Storybook Grill with Bob
and Charlotte and headed back home. All of them were completely unaware
that their entire conversation had been heard by the patrons in the next booth.
The Book Huggers leaned so far out of their seats to watch them leave
that Cindy and Mindy fell onto the floor. The night had consisted of the most
important eavesdropping of their lives.
“Girls, did you hear everything I just heard?” Cindy said.
“I’m not sure,” Lindy said. “My heart started beating so hard toward the
end, I only heard every other word!”
“We’ve been right all along!” Mindy said. “They never went to Vermont
—they were living in another dimension! Did any of us ever think of that?”
Wendy raised a hand—reminding the group it had been one of her
suspicions from the very beginning.
“Forget Sherlock Holmes,” Cindy said. “We’ve got our own mystery to
follow.”

CHAPTER FIVE
CRIES FROM THE CASTLE
Had someone told Bree Campbell two weeks ago that she would soon be
flying above another continent on a World War II plane with three distant
relatives, she would have laughed. Ironically, that’s exactly where Bree was,
and she wanted to cry. She had always considered herself a person of good
judgment and respectability, but as she bounced around the Boeing B-17
Flying Fortress thirteen thousand feet in the air, somewhere between France
and Germany, Bree suddenly felt like the lead character in a cautionary tale.
“Can you believe I haven’t flown one of these since the sixties?” Cornelia
called from the captain’s seat. The old woman’s hands clutched the controls,
but from the way they jerked her back and forth, it looked like the plane was
controlling her more than she was controlling it.
Bree, Wanda, and Frenda were strapped into their seats and holding on for
dear life. They had been flying for nine hours straight, and thanks to
Cornelia’s questionable piloting skills, it had been the bumpiest flight of
Bree’s life. And from the way things were going, it might be her last.
“Aunt Cornelia, are you sure you don’t need a hand up there?” Wanda
asked.
“I’m fine, thank you, dear,” Cornelia said. “It’s just like riding a bike!”
“Yeah, off a cliff,” Frenda said.
When Bree first met the Sisters Grimm and heard about their lives’ work
monitoring portals between the Otherworld and the fairy-tale world, she
thought they were the most capable group of women she had ever known.
However, she was learning the hard way that that capability did not include
flying a plane.
“Cornelia, remind me again where you went to piloting school?” Bree
asked.
“Well, technically I never went to school for it,” Cornelia said. “My father
was a pilot during the war—this was his plane. He taught me how to fly when
I was about your age, Bree. He flew this baby to Germany many times.
Thank goodness we’re going under different circumstances.”
“Your father fought in World War II?” Bree asked. “That must have been
difficult with so much family in Germany.”
“Most of our family left long before the war,” Cornelia said. “Would you
like a flying lesson, Bree?”
Bree wasn’t convinced Cornelia knew how to fly, let alone give a flying
lesson. She looked to Wanda and Frenda, and they motioned for her to go.
“You can’t be any worse than her!” Frenda said.
“Learn everything she knows and save us!” Wanda said.
Bree was scared to unbuckle her seat belt, but she quickly unfastened it
and dashed to the co-pilot seat beside Cornelia. There was an overwhelming
number of buttons, switches, and levers before her.
“I don’t think I can do this,” Bree said.
“If you can operate that phone of yours so well, this will be a walk in the
park,” Cornelia said. “Besides, the co-pilot’s job is the easiest.”
“Wait a second,” Bree said. “There should be two pilots flying this
plane?”
“Traditionally,” Cornelia said. “But it always takes two men to do what a
woman can do on her own.”
Bree would never have gotten on the plane if she’d thought it would lead
to this. She was making the trip to save a friend, but who was going to save
her?
As soon as she learned Emmerich had been kidnapped, Bree had a strong
feeling it wasn’t a normal Otherworld abduction. She had no evidence to
support the suspicion, but she felt it with every fiber of her being and
couldn’t shake it no matter how hard she tried. Bree had pestered Frau
Himmelsbach for more information about the incident, but Emmerich’s
mother grew tired of the questions and eventually ignored her calls. Bree had
shared her hunch with the Sisters Grimm, and they agreed the circumstances
were fishy.
“It is curious he was kidnapped so soon after being in the fairy-tale
world,” Cornelia said.
“If he was taken by someone from the fairy-tale world, we have tools that
can prove it,” Wanda told Bree.
“What kind of tools?” Bree asked.
“Cross-dimensional emission-tracking devices,” Frenda said. “Whenever
someone or something travels between worlds, the portal leaves a radiationlike scent on them. We have machines that can detect it.”
“Awesome,” Bree said. “All we need now is a way to get to Germany.”
Cornelia had been cooped up in their Connecticut home for so long, she
was looking for any excuse to get out of the house. She generously offered
Bree a ride to Germany on their family plane. Bree was so desperate to find
Emmerich, she didn’t hesitate to take her up on the offer.
There was only one thing standing in her way: Bree had technically run
away from home to find the Sisters Grimm. If she was now going to Europe,
she needed a really good excuse so her parents wouldn’t call the police.
Luckily, Cornelia supplied that as well.
“Is this Little Eddy?” Cornelia had said to Bree’s father over the phone.
“It’s your cousin Cornelia.… I know, it has been a very long time.… Darling,
I’m calling to sincerely apologize to you and your wife. You see, Bree
recently called me with questions about our family heritage. She was so
interested, I invited her to come stay with me so I could tell her more.…
Well, I just found out she never ran it by you.… My thoughts exactly—
inexcusable! I’m sure you were both scared to death.… My intention was to
send her home immediately, but I unfortunately had a bad fall this morning
and injured my hip.… No, I’m not in any pain.… Yes, there is something you
can do.… Would it be terrible if Bree stayed with me until the end of the
week? I’m useless on my own.… Just until Wanda gets back into town, then
we’ll put her on the train home.… She’s been such help.… You bet,
absolutely no privileges whatsoever.… Thank you so much, dear!”
The next thing Bree knew, she and the Sisters Grimm were on their way
to a small private airport. However, Bree, Wanda, and Frenda all thought
Cornelia had hired a pilot to take them to Germany. They didn’t realize
Cornelia was planning to fly the plane herself until she switched on the
propellers and launched them into takeoff.
Now, at just fifteen years old, Bree was sitting next to the old woman,
being taught to fly the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress. If Bree lived long
enough to become an old woman herself, she wasn’t sure her grandchildren
would even believe the story she was currently living.
“Taking off is the easy part,” Cornelia instructed. “You simply start the
propellers with the blue dial, turn the red gear to Steering Mode to get the
plane onto the runway, push down the green lever, and pull up on the
controls.”
Bree gulped. “Blue dial, red gear, green lever, controls,” she repeated.
“Perfect,” Cornelia said. “To fly, all you do is pull up on the green lever,
turn the red gear to Flight Mode, adjust the altitude with the brown handle,
and steer with the controls. Here, give it a go!”
Cornelia flipped a switch and the whole plane turned off. They entered a
rapid descent toward the earth! Bree watched in panic as the numbers on the
altitude monitor dropped hundreds of feet per second. Wanda and Frenda
were screaming so loudly, she could barely focus.
“Green lever, red gear, brown handle, controls!” Bree said, mimicking
everything Cornelia had just instructed.
The Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress stopped plunging toward the ground and
glided smoothly through the clouds. In fact, it was flying much more easily
with Bree at the controls.
“You’re a natural flier!” Cornelia said. “It’s in our DNA.”
Bree thought there might be some truth to this. Since the magic in their
family’s blood came from Mother Goose, she wondered if a few of Mother
Goose’s flying genes had been transferred, too. There was actually a lot about
Cornelia that reminded Bree of Mother Goose. They both had the same
twinkle in their eye when they put others in danger.
“How much longer until we’re on the ground?” Wanda asked. “Safely on
the ground!”
“We’ve already begun our descent,” Cornelia said. “We’ll land shortly
after we pass over Füssen.”
Bree recalled that the area didn’t have many large cities. “Does Füssen
have an airport?” she asked.
“We don’t need an airport to land,” Cornelia said. “To quote Coco
Chanel, ‘The world is your runway’!”
“Mother, she was talking about fashion!” Frenda yelled.
“Everyone stop worrying! This baby is built for combat,” Cornelia said.
They didn’t care what it was built for; landing a plane anywhere but at an
airport sounded like a crash landing to them! Bree, Wanda, and Frenda
tightened their seat belts until there was no slack left. Soon the small
Bavarian city of Füssen came into view and Cornelia searched the ground for
a smooth surface to land.
“That field should do,” she said.
Cornelia jerked the controls and the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress curved
through the air, lowering toward a grassy field below. As the plane turned,
Bree caught a glimpse of Neuschwanstein Castle peeking through the hills in
the distance. It was as if she were seeing an old friend. The castle was just as
majestic as it was the first time she saw it with Conner on Mary’s Bridge.
“All right, time for your landing lesson,” Cornelia said. “You start by
turning the red gear to Landing Mode, pull up on the green lever, turn the
black knob to put down the wheels, and pull up on the controls so we’re
parallel to the ground.”
“Red gear, green lever, black knob, controls—got it,” Bree said.
“Splendid,” Cornelia said. “Now land us.”
Bree, Frenda, and Wanda were horrified. It was like Cornelia had a death
wish or something!
“What? But I’ve never landed a plane before!” Bree said.
The plane was getting closer and closer to the ground—someone had to
land it before it was too late! Cornelia looked over her glasses at Bree with
total faith in her eyes.
“Sometimes, if we enter situations that scare us with both hands on the
wheel, they don’t seem as frightening,” she said as calmly as ever. “Or in this
case, with both hands on the controls.”
Bree couldn’t believe Cornelia was making her do this. She could feel her
heart beating in the back of her throat. One wrong move and they would all
be dead!
Carefully and quickly, Bree turned the red gear to Landing Mode, pulled
up on the green lever, turned the black knob to put the wheels down, and held
up the controls to make the plane parallel to the ground.
“We’re gonna crash!” Wanda yelled, and vigorously crossed her chest.
“Wanda, you’re not Catholic!” Frenda said.
“I know, but we’re gonna need all the help we can get!”
The wheels slammed into the grassy field and the plane landed like a rock
skipping across a lake. It tore up large strips of earth, as if leaving a long
message in Morse code. Finally, the plane decelerated and rolled into a
shaky, sudden stop.
“Oh my God,” Bree said in disbelief. “I just landed a plane!”
“Mother, how could you let a fifteen-year-old land a plane!” Frenda said.
Cornelia burst into a fit of giggles. “You’re all so gullible,” she said. “I
had the autopilot on the entire time!”
The others didn’t find this funny at all.
“You mean, all that was for nothing?” Bree asked with an angry scowl.
“No, no—you did quite well,” Cornelia said. “Had the autopilot failed, we
would have had a successful landing. My father did the same thing to me on
my first flight. The best lessons are learned when it’s sink or swim, and
you’re quite the swimmer!”
Once their hearts settled to a normal pace, Bree and the Sisters Grimm
locked up the plane and headed for Emmerich’s house. Bree thought leaving
the plane unattended in a field was a strange thing to do, but Cornelia assured
her that planes were very difficult to steal.
Bree led the women through the outskirts of Füssen and into the little
village just below Neuschwanstein Castle called Hohenschwangau. Since
Cornelia walked with a cane, Bree was worried the journey would be too
much for her, but the old woman hobbled along, excited to be on another
Sisters Grimm adventure. They walked past all the souvenir shops,
restaurants, and inns dedicated to the castle, and found the Himmelsbachs’
tiny home on the edge of town.
“There it is,” Bree said, and pointed to the front steps. “That’s where
Conner and I met him.”
The sight made Bree feel remarkably nostalgic. It seemed like just
yesterday that she and Conner had told Emmerich they were secret agents so
he’d take them into the castle after visiting hours. They hadn’t been friends
for long, but Bree and Emmerich had shared such an incredible once-in-alifetime adventure, she couldn’t believe there was a time when the little
German boy was a stranger. She just hoped they could bring him home,
wherever he was.
“Here goes nothing,” Bree said. “I hope Frau Himmelsbach is better at
answering her door than she is her phone.”
They walked up the front steps and rang the doorbell. They waited, but no
one answered. Bree rang the doorbell again, holding it down longer. A
moment later, Frau Himmelsbach answered the door.
“Kann ich Dir helfen?” she asked.
If Bree hadn’t recognized her voice from the phone, she wouldn’t have
thought it was Emmerich’s mother. The woman had brown hair and olive
skin, very different from her son’s pale skin and rosy complexion. She had
puffy eyes and sunken cheeks, like she had been crying and not eating much.
She wore a big black robe over a nightgown and probably hadn’t changed
clothes in days.
The woman wasn’t what Bree was expecting, but she definitely looked
like the mother of a missing child.
“Frau Himmelsbach, I’m sorry to disturb you,” Bree said. “I’m Bree
Campbell, your son’s friend from the United States.”
Emmerich’s mother was not happy to see her, and especially not happy to
see she had brought friends with her.
“What is wrong with you, child?” the Frau said. “I told you to stop calling
me and now you’ve come to my home?”
“I’m sorry,” Bree said. “I know you don’t want to talk to me, but I
couldn’t stay away. These are my cousins, Cornelia, Frenda, and Wanda.
We’ve traveled all this way because we want to help you find your son.”
Frau Himmelsbach crossed her arms and shook her head. She wasn’t easy
to convince.
“You Americans and your egos,” she said. “What can you do that the
Bavarian police cannot?”
Bree looked to the Sisters Grimm, hoping one of them would have an
answer.
“We’re private investigators who specialize in child abduction,” Cornelia
said. “We’ve brought special equipment along with us that may point us in
the direction of whoever took your child.”
“The police searched every inch of my home,” the Frau said. “They didn’t
find a single clue.”
“With all due respect, ma’am,” Wanda said, “the Bavarian police can’t
find clues like we can. Please, may we come inside?”
The distressed mother looked back and forth among the women and tried
to think of a reason not to let them, but she couldn’t.
“Fine,” she said. “I apologize, my house is a mess.”
Frau Himmelsbach escorted Bree and the Sisters Grimm inside her home.
The Frau offered them a seat in the sitting room and Cornelia and Bree
happily accepted. From the sofa they could see into Emmerich’s bedroom
through an open door in the hall. The walls were covered in posters of
superheroes. Bree remembered him saying he wanted to visit the United
States because that’s where all the superheroes lived. The memory made her
miss him even more.
“May we have a look around?” Frenda asked.
“As you wish,” the Frau said.
Frenda and Wanda went to work right away. They each removed a crossdimensional emission-tracking device from their purse; the device looked like
a long microphone connected to an old radio. They waved the microphone
parts around the house and the radio parts beeped as they went.
They searched the sitting room and kitchen, but didn’t find anything. The
search continued in Emmerich’s bedroom, and when they scanned the area by
his window, the machines beeped like crazy. Wanda looked to Bree and
Cornelia and with one nod she said a thousand words—someone from the
fairy-tale world had definitely been there. Bree’s hunch was right.
“Was Emmerich taken through the window?” Frenda asked.
“Yes,” Frau Himmelsbach said, surprised they knew. “The night it
happened, Emmerich was sleeping in his bedroom while I was in here
reading. I heard a noise, so I checked on him. His window was open and in
the distance I saw someone in a black cloak running away with Emmerich
over their shoulder.”
She broke into tears recalling the terrifying sight and Cornelia offered her
a handkerchief.
“I chased them, but they disappeared into the night,” the Frau said. “I
called the police and they came to the house every day for a week. They
never found anything, not even a fingerprint. How did you know he was
taken from the window?”
If they were going to tell the Frau the truth, Bree figured it was best to
start at the beginning.
“Shortly before Emmerich was taken, he and I made a crazy discovery,”
Bree said. “We did this thing, like a blood test, and it proved he and I are
actually related. Our blood matches DNA from the Brothers Grimm.”
“The Brothers Grimm?” the Frau asked.
“Yes,” Bree continued. “Which means Cornelia, Frenda, Wanda, and
myself are either related to you or to Emmerich’s father.”
The Frau was very confused. “I wouldn’t know either way,” she said.
“Emmerich isn’t my biological son—he was adopted.”
“Adopted?” Bree said in shock. “He never mentioned that.”
“That’s because I never told him,” Frau Himmelsbach said. “He was
abandoned when he was a baby. I didn’t want him living life thinking he was
unwanted.”
Everything Bree thought she knew suddenly changed. She quickly
abandoned her plan to tell the Frau about the fairy-tale world—clearly she
didn’t have all the facts straight.
“Where was he found?” Bree asked.
“Neuschwanstein Castle,” she said. “My father used to work nights there
as a security guard. One night, as he was patrolling the halls, he heard crying.
He followed the cries to the Singers’ Hall and found Emmerich wrapped up
in a blanket in the middle of the floor. Someone must have left him during a
tour earlier in the day. It was very strange, because my father swore he had
checked the room multiple times earlier that night and never saw the baby.”
Bree and the Sisters Grimm were all thinking the same thing: Emmerich
wasn’t related to the Brothers Grimm after all—he was from the fairy-tale
world! Someone must have crossed through the portal in the Singers’ Hall
and left him in the castle!
The Frau’s eyes suddenly grew wide and she covered her mouth fearfully.
“Wait a moment,” she said. “That reminds me of something I completely
forgot! There was a note pinned to his blanket the night he was found. Let me
see if I can find it.”
Emmerich’s mom went down the hall to her bedroom. They heard her
searching madly through all her drawers and belongings. A few minutes later,
she returned with a piece of parchment. Her hands were shaking, as if she
were holding a ransom note. She handed it to Bree, and the Sisters Grimm
gathered around her to read the note.
To whoever finds this child, please take him to a loving home that will
offer protection. His father is a very dangerous man and the child is
not safe with his mother. Should the father learn of his son’s existence,
the child will be in grave danger.
It appeared that Bree and the Sisters Grimm had helped the Frau uncover
a suspect in her son’s disappearance—Emmerich’s biological father!
“It was so many years ago, I forgot the note existed,” Frau Himmelsbach
confessed. “Even then, I didn’t take it seriously. I never thought they would
find him.”
“Should we take this to the police?” Wanda asked.
“No, we can’t!” the Frau exclaimed. “You see, I never legally adopted
Emmerich. I fell in love with him the minute my father brought him home. At
the time, we were very poor. I was afraid he would be taken away if we
called the police, so we kept it a secret. If they found out now, I would never
see him again.”
Bree had so many questions, she could barely see straight. She always
loved a good mystery novel, but she never thought her life would turn into
one.
“If you’re related to him, do you have any idea who Emmerich’s parents
are?” Frau Himmelsbach asked. “Do you know where they might have taken
him?”
“I’m afraid not,” Bree said. “But I know someone who might.”

CHAPTER SIX
A BEWITCHING OFFER
The Masked Man was awoken by a throbbing headache. He opened his eyes
and discovered he was somewhere in the forest, but he had no recollection of
how he had gotten there. Even stranger, when he looked around he noticed
the ground was above his head and the smoky sky was below his feet.
After further inspection, he realized he was upside down. His cape was
caught on a tree branch and he was hanging several feet in the air. As he
slowly returned to full consciousness, the Masked Man remembered that
flying monkeys had dropped him there. He wasn’t sure how long he had been
hanging in the tree, but since he was still alive, he assumed his cape must
have broken his fall.
He reached toward the branch piercing his cape to set himself free. The
motion sent excruciating pain through his entire body and he screamed. The
pain was so bad, he couldn’t tell where it began or ended. Clearly, he had hit
more than one branch on his way down. The Masked Man tugged on his cape
and it ripped in half. He fell to the ground and landed on his back with a thud.
After a few minutes of lying on the ground, the Masked Man had a better
idea of where the pain was coming from. His left arm was definitely broken,
one of his right ribs was most likely cracked, and his right ankle was sprained
at best. Half his mask had been ripped off by something he collided with
during the fall, and bloody scratches covered one side of his face. Still, it was
a miracle he had survived.
He moaned as he struggled to his feet. All the blood in his head rushed to
the other parts of his body, making him woozy. He removed his damaged
cape and ripped his suit jacket into strips to make a sling for his arm.
The physical pain was unbearable, but he was almost thankful for it—it
was the only thing distracting him from his mental anguish.
The Masked Man was not a stranger to disappointment, but losing an
empire was one colossal setback he never saw coming. After a lifetime of
meticulous planning, he had finally achieved the power he had craved since
childhood. Only to then have it yanked away like a rug from underneath him.
After such a narrow escape from death, a different man would have
abandoned his quest for supremacy, but the Masked Man’s need for power
was like a disease—and fulfillment was the only cure. Like a phoenix, he
immediately began calculating his path out of the ashes. Somehow, some
way, he would reclaim his power and destroy the literary villains who had
taken it from him. But first, he needed to find a path out of the forest.
The Masked Man had no idea what part of the forest he had been dropped
in, so he hobbled through the trees in search of an indication. After hours of
limping aimlessly through the woods, he only found more and more trees the
farther he went. Since the mythological creature had escaped captivity in the
Northern Palace dungeon, the Masked Man was as cautious and quiet as
possible just in case it was also wandering through the forest.
Eventually he stumbled upon a small clearing with three unusual boulders.
They were tall and stuck out from the ground like trees themselves. The
Masked Man had a seat against one of the boulders and tightened his
makeshift sling. But his rest was short-lived.
A commotion traveled through the woods nearby. The sound became
louder and louder as it moved closer and closer. It was a repetitive tremor,
like the marching of several pairs of metal boots—Winkie soldiers were
approaching! The Masked Man assumed the villains must have sent the
soldiers to retrieve his body. He was too wounded to outrun them, so he
dived into the bushes beside the boulders and was hidden from view.
A few moments later, two rows of a dozen Winkie soldiers entered the
clearing, but they weren’t alone. The soldiers were escorting the Wicked
Witch of the West, the Queen of Hearts, and Captain Hook through the
forest. The sight of the literary villains sent a rage through the Masked Man
that was so powerful, his injuries were temporarily numbed. There wasn’t a
word in existence to describe the anger coursing through his veins.
The Wicked Witch of the West, the Queen of Hearts, and Captain Hook
paced around the clearing like they were waiting for something to happen.
They didn’t appear to be looking for the Masked Man, so he wondered what
on earth they were doing in the woods.
“Well?” Captain Hook growled. “Where is she?”
“Are we certain we’re in the right place?” the Queen of Hearts asked.
The Wicked Witch of the West unrolled a scroll of parchment she held
tightly in her hand.
“I’m positive,” the Wicked Witch said. “Her instructions say, ‘Take the
path four miles into the Dwarf Forests and wait for me in the clearing of the
three stone trees.’ There hasn’t been another clearing for miles. This must be
it.”
As the Masked Man knew all too well, patience was not the villains’ forte.
The Wicked Witch, the Queen of Hearts, and Captain Hook became more
restless by the second.
“Well, whoever she is, I don’t like her,” Captain Hook snarled. “She has
some nerve to keep us waiting like this.”
“I want to hear what she’s offering,” the Queen of Hearts said. “But if it
isn’t appealing, and we’ve come all this way for nothing, I say we capture
her and—”
“Cut off her head?” the Wicked Witch asked mockingly. “There are other
ways to execute someone, you know—most of which are more entertaining
and far less messy.”
“Like dropping the Masked Man to his death?” Captain Hook said with a
nasty grin. “Watching him squirm and scream as he fell was rather fun,
wasn’t it? If only gravity affected everyone—my hook would be covered in
Peter Pan’s blood by now!”
The Queen of Hearts rolled her eyes. “I’m so sick of hearing that boy’s
name!” she hollered. “He’s a child, Captain! Let it go! From the way you
obsessively talk about him, I’d say he’s taken much more from you than just
your hand!”
Captain Hook intended to respond with a snippy comment, but the pirate
went quiet. He leaned against one of the boulders and placed his hook on his
hip, thinking about what the Queen of Hearts had just said.
From the bushes just beside Captain Hook, the Masked Man had a perfect
view of a revolver dangling from the captain’s belt. He was drawn to the
weapon like a moth to a flame. If he got his hands on it, with three quick
shots he could terminate the literary villains before the Winkie soldiers knew
what was happening!
Carefully, when they were all looking in the opposite direction, the
Masked Man reached his good hand toward the captain’s waist and
unfastened his holster.
It was a painful effort with his cracked rib and it took everything in him
not to scream. Slowly, he removed the revolver from the holster with the
captain none the wiser.
The Masked Man examined the gun—it had three bullets! He had exactly
what he needed to shoot the villains! He cocked it and aimed the weapon
back and forth at the three of them, indecisive about which one to kill first.
Captain Hook became agitated and started stomping around the clearing.
“I knew it was a trick!” he said in a huff. “We’ve been fooled! No one is
meeting us in the woods today!”
The Queen of Hearts and the Wicked Witch nodded in agreement. But just
as they were about to order the soldiers to take them back, they were
interrupted by a voice from outside the clearing.
“Haven’t you ever heard the phrase ‘Good things come to those who
wait’?”
The Masked Man lowered the revolver when he heard the voice. It
sounded awfully familiar.
The villains and the Winkie soldiers heard footsteps next and quickly
turned to see a hooded creature approaching them. The soldiers raised their
staffs toward the creature, but with a quick flick of its wrist, their weapons
crumbled into dirt. The creature stepped into the clearing and lowered its
hood—it was a beautiful woman with horns like a ram’s that curved around
the sides of her face.
“Morina,” the Masked Man whispered to himself. His desire to
assassinate the villains was quickly replaced by curiosity. What did she want
with them?
“Are you the witch they call Morina?” the Wicked Witch of the West
asked.
“I am,” Morina said. “And you must be the new leaders of this world. It’s
an honor to make your acquaintance. Defeating the kingdoms of humans and
fairies is no easy task—you’ve achieved what the witches have only dreamed
about for centuries.”
The villains shared a proud look and stood a little taller.
“Since you’re here, I’m assuming you received my letter?” Morina asked.
“It’s not every day we receive an invitation delivered by a crow,” the
Queen of Hearts said. “Now tell us, what is the ‘offer of a lifetime’ that you
wrote about?”
“It requires a lengthy explanation,” Morina said. “Please, have a seat.”
The witch waved her hand toward the three boulders and they transformed
into large stone chairs for the villains to sit on. So far, the witch was very
impressive.
“You see, the witches of this world have always had a long and
unpleasant history with the people who ruled it,” Morina explained. “Before
you arrived there were rumors of an impending witch hunt. Those fears were
all but confirmed when the Masked Man became emperor. We were certain
that once he executed the royal families, it would only be a matter of time
before he ordered our extermination. But luckily, that’s all changed now that
you’ve taken his place.”
“If the Masked Man saw the witches as a threat, why should we view
things any differently?” Captain Hook asked.
“Because the three of you are much wiser than your predecessors,”
Morina said. “Why become enemies when we have a glorious opportunity to
become allies?”
The villains side-eyed one another. They weren’t pleased with where the
conversation was going.
“For your sake, I hope you’re offering us more than friendship,” the
Queen of Hearts warned.
Morina smiled and her eyes grew wide. They could tell friendship was
only the beginning of what she had to offer.
“Of course. I’ll cut to the chase,” she said. “Recently, I convinced the
other witches that the only way we could escape the pending genocide was by
leaving this world. We need a place to ourselves where we won’t be
controlled by fairies or ostracized by humans. So I formed a plan for the
witches to invade and conquer another dimension, known as the
Otherworld.”
The villains were instantly intrigued. “The Otherworld?” they asked in
unison.
“It’s a world very similar to this one, but far greater,” Morina explained.
“It has hundreds of countries, thousands of cities, and billions of people.
There are structures and machines you could only dream of, and more land
and sea than we would ever need. The best part is that this world operates
entirely without magic. With no fairies to limit us, we would be
unstoppable!”
Her passionate description was hypnotizing. Still, the villains wondered if
it was too good to be true.
“How can you prove it exists?” Captain Hook asked.
“Take a look for yourself,” Morina said.
The witch’s eyes suddenly lit up like the headlights of a car. Morina
magically transferred images of the Otherworld into the villains’ minds and
their eyes glowed as brightly as hers. Visions of London, Paris, Tokyo, and
New York City flashed before their eyes. They saw the Eiffel Tower, the
Pyramids of Giza, the Great Wall of China, the Golden Gate Bridge, and the
Taj Mahal.
The villains had never seen a world so grand and diverse before. The light
faded from their eyes, but was replaced by the glow of desire.
“How do we get to the Otherworld?” the Wicked Witch asked.
“The late Fairy Godmother has portals hidden all over the kingdoms,”
Morina said. “But each one is difficult to open, and the journey takes a toll on
anyone who’s not a practitioner of white magic.”
“Then how do the witches expect to cross over?” the Queen of Hearts
asked.
“As luck would have it, the two worlds are scheduled to collide very
soon,” Morina said. “A doorway will open that will bridge the worlds like
never before. Once it appears, we can charge into the Otherworld and take it
by storm!”
The villains’ suspicion grew as much as their interest.
“You seem to have it all figured out,” Captain Hook said. “What exactly
do the witches want from us?”
A devious smile grew on Morina’s face. This was the part she was most
excited to tell them.
“The witches don’t want anything from you,” she said.
“Then why do they want to become allies?” Captain Hook asked.
“You misheard me, Captain,” Morina said. “The witches don’t even know
I’m here. I was speaking for myself when I proposed an alliance.”
The villains shared a look, each more confused than the other. Morina
waved a hand over the dirt and a fourth boulder shot up from the ground. She
transformed it into a large stone throne, much taller than the villains’ chairs,
and she had a seat.
“I had every intention of leading the witches into the Otherworld,”
Morina explained. “Sadly, that leadership was stolen from me. Two witches
with seniority, the Snow Queen and the Sea Witch, have taken the operation
into their own clammy hands. But my frustration has taught me a valuable
lesson: Witches are not like wolves—we don’t belong in packs. Once we cross
into the Otherworld, we’ll fight one another for dominance until there is only
one of us left. So I’ve begun a new plan for after the witches conquer the
Otherworld.”
The villains shared a smile. Morina’s plan was starting to make sense—
and they liked where it was going.
“You’re going to betray them!” the Wicked Witch said eagerly.
“Precisely,” Morina said. “The Snow Queen and the Sea Witch plan to
cast a spell on the late Fairy Godmother’s granddaughter, a powerful young
fairy named Alex. They believe if they curse her strongly enough, they’ll be
able to turn the girl into a weapon and use her to vanquish the Otherworld.
I’m not convinced this will work. I believe there are more traditional ways of
invading a new territory.”
“You want our army!” the Queen of Hearts said.
Morina clapped her hands excitedly. “Exactly,” she said. “I say we let the
witches be our pawns. Let them invade the Otherworld and weaken its
defenses. Once they’ve both exhausted all their resources, we’ll charge into
the Otherworld and steal it from them! We’ll destroy Alex, the witches, and
whatever is left standing in our way!”
It was the most thrilling and lucrative offer the villains had ever received.
They were all fidgeting in their seats at the thought of the conquest. However,
they still didn’t know if Morina could be trusted.
“How do we know you won’t just betray us in the end, too?” Captain
Hook asked.
“We’ve already been deceived once by someone in this world—we won’t
let it happen again!” the Wicked Witch said.
“Unlike the Masked Man, I don’t bite off more than I can chew,” Morina
said. “We’ll divide the Otherworld evenly among us—we’ll each have our
own territory twice the size of this world. Surely that’s more than enough
land for each of us. Time is of the essence, so if you’re interested, I need to
know now. Do we have a deal, or not?”
The villains huddled together to discuss the situation privately, but Morina
could tell they had already made up their minds. They were creatures of greed
and couldn’t refuse.
“We have a deal,” Captain Hook said. “But if you disappoint us, we’ll end
you just like we ended the Masked Man!”
Morina laughed loudly. “You think you killed the Masked Man?” she
asked.
“Of course we killed him,” the Queen of Hearts said. “No man could have
survived that fall!”
“Yes, but the Masked Man isn’t a man—he’s a roach,” Morina said
sharply. “Even if you cut off his head, he’d be back the very second a throne
was left unattended. We haven’t seen the last of him. But don’t worry, I have
something that will bring him to his knees should he try to sabotage our
plan.”
“And what is that?” the Wicked Witch asked.
The villains were curious, but not nearly as curious as the Masked Man
himself. He had very few possessions—what had the witch stolen?
“Not what, but who,” Morina said. “I’ve kidnapped his son, a boy named
Emmerich.”
“The Masked Man has a child?” Captain Hook asked.
“Not one he knows about,” Morina said. “But should he ever cross us, the
boy will stop him in his tracks.”
The Masked Man was so shocked, he dropped the revolver. He no longer
felt any of his injuries or the anger boiling inside him. He forgot all about
losing his empire and his desire to kill the villains. All he could feel was
adrenaline and his heartbeat. All he could think about was the son he never
knew he had.
“I should return to the witches before they get suspicious,” Morina said.
The witch stood from her stone throne and with a snap of her fingers, the
boulders all returned to normal. The villains were buzzing with anticipation.
If they could invade the Otherworld today, they wouldn’t hesitate.
“When will the invasion take place?” the Queen of Hearts asked. “We
want our soldiers to be prepared.”
“It won’t be long now,” Morina said. “When the time is right, we’ll strike.
I’ll be in touch.”
The witch covered her horns with her hood and disappeared into the trees.
The villains ordered the Winkie soldiers to escort them out of the woods and
practically skipped back to the Northern Palace.
The Masked Man was still so astonished, he stayed in the bushes long
after the villains were gone. Having a son presented him with a world of new
opportunities—opportunities he had never thought possible. If he played his
cards right, the Masked Man could regain much more than just his empire—
he could salvage everything that had been stolen from him.…

CHAPTER SEVEN
THE CAPTAIN AND HER CREW
I packed you both a turkey sandwich, chips, yogurt, a banana, two bottles of
water, and a cookie,” Charlotte said. “There’s also a sweatshirt, a flashlight, a
Swiss Army knife, a first-aid kit, matches, and a compass.”
The twins’ mother handed them each a backpack full of the items she’d
packed. Alex and Conner appreciated the gesture, but traveling into a
fictitious dimension was very different from going on a camping trip.
“Thanks, Mom,” Alex said. “You didn’t have to do that.”
“Yeah, this isn’t our first rodeo,” Conner said, and looked through his
backpack. “Oh cool, chocolate chip! Thanks!”
“It’s just a few things—I’ll feel better knowing you have them,” Charlotte
said. “So where’s your first stop? Any idea how long you’ll be gone for?”
Alex turned to Conner, just as curious as their mother. For the first time in
their lives, she was leaving all the planning to her brother. She had offered to
help a number of times, but Conner was determined to do everything himself.
Not insisting was a gamble on Alex’s part, but he seemed very confident he
had everything taken care of.
“First up is my short story ‘Starboardia,’” Conner said excitedly. “It’s a
pirate adventure set in the Caribbean Sea around the early 1700s. The story’s
about Captain Auburn Sally and her all-female crew as they search deserted
islands for buried treasure.”
Charlotte hid her concern behind a smile. “Sounds progressive,” she said.
“Don’t worry—we’ll be fine,” Conner said. “Auburn Sally is based on
Goldilocks. We’ll find her ship, tell her the situation, and bring her and her
crew back to the house. It’ll be easy.”
“If you say so,” Charlotte said, unconvinced.
“Go get ’em,” Bob said, and patted him on the back.
Conner had organized his writing neatly in a binder with tabs separating
the short stories. He opened the binder to the first page of “Starboardia” and
set it on the living room floor.
“Are you sure there isn’t anything we need before we go?” Alex asked
one final time. “There’s nothing you’re overlooking or forgetting about?”
“Trust me. I’ve got everything under control,” he said. “If there’s one
thing I know inside out, it’s my short stories. I’ve actually been really looking
forward to this. I bet my characters will be excited to meet me!”
Traveling into the short stories had been all Conner could think about
since he’d first had the idea. Naturally, the circumstances to warrant the trip
were terrible, but he still felt like the luckiest author in the world. Who else
got to visit the worlds and meet the people that existed only in their
imagination? Conner often fantasized about seeing a film or a play based on
his writing one day, but this would be much better than that. It wouldn’t be
someone else’s interpretation or adaptation of his words; everything would be
purely as he’d envisioned it.
Conner removed Mother Goose’s flask, which contained the Portal
Potion, from his back pocket. He poured a couple of drops on the binder and
then stored the flask safely in his backpack. The pages illuminated like a
powerful spotlight, shining a bright beam of light toward the ceiling.
“Here we go!” Conner said. “Wish us luck!”
“Good luck!” Bob said. “We’ll be here when you get back.”
“Make good choices!” Charlotte said. “There’s also some sunscreen in
your bags if it’s sunny out!”
Alex and Conner strapped on their backpacks, stepped into the beam of
light, and disappeared from the house.
Just like it had when they traveled into The Wonderful Wizard of Oz,
Peter Pan, and Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, the Portal Potion first took
them into an endless space with nothing but words. Rather than printed text,
words were written all around them, as if there were hundreds of invisible
pencils moving through the air. Each word was in Conner’s messy
handwriting.
“Awesome!” Conner said. “It’s like we’ve stepped inside my brain!”
“You’ve got to work on your penmanship,” Alex noted.
The handwritten words stretched into shapes, then gained color and
texture, and finally transformed into the objects they described. Conner
watched in awe as the world of his first short story came to life around him.
Alex was excited, too, until she saw the words ocean waves stretching below
their feet.
“Hey, Conner?” she said. “Should we be worried about—”
Before she could finish her sentence, the twins fell into an ocean that
formed under their feet. Strong waves crashed over them, pushing them
farther and farther below the water. The water was difficult to swim against,
but they kicked their way to the surface and spit out mouthfuls of salty water.
Conner saw his binder of short stories floating in the water nearby and
retrieved it before the waves carried it away. If he lost the binder, the twins
would lose their exit back into the Otherworld.
Alex angrily splashed water in her brother’s face. “Why didn’t you say we
needed a boat?” she asked.
“Sorry!” Conner said. “I forgot the first thing I described was the ocean!”
By now the handwritten words had finished forming the world of
“Starboardia” around them. They were bobbing up and down in the middle of
the Caribbean Sea. The air was so misty, they could barely see each other, let
alone any land or ships in the distance. Alex snapped her fingers and a small
wooden rowboat appeared in front of them.
The twins climbed aboard and caught their breath. Conner put the binder
in his backpack, where it would be safe. If anything happened to it, they
would have no way back home.
“Well, that was a rough start,” Alex said. “What’s the second thing you
described?”
“The Dolly Llama,” Conner said.
“The Dolly Llama?”
“It’s the name of Auburn Sally’s ship,” he said. “Don’t judge me, I
thought it was a funny name for a ship. We should see it any minute now.”
A towering shadow appeared in the mist—something very large headed
their way. The shadow grew larger and darker and details formed as it got
closer. Finally, the twins saw that it was a pirate ship sailing straight toward
their rowboat with no sign of slowing down. It was going to plow right into
them!
“Abandon boat!” Conner yelled.
The twins dived into the water just as the ship smashed into their rowboat,
crushing it to pieces. Once again, Alex and Conner were caught under the
vicious waves. They swam to the surface and were sloshed around the
choppy water as the pirate ship sailed right past them.
“Ahoy!” Conner yelled up at the ship. “Twins overboard! Help us!”
A few seconds later, a rope ladder was rolled off the ship, and it landed in
the water next to the twins. They grabbed it, climbed up, pulled themselves
over the ship’s railing, and collapsed onto the lower deck. They were
drenched and coughing up seawater.
Alex looked up and saw a large black flag flying above the ship with a
llama skull on it.
“This must be the Dolly Llama,” Alex said. She pointed out the flag to
Conner, and a giant smile grew on his face. He leaped to his feet and helped
his sister to hers. The flag was proof they were in his short story.
“We made it!” he exclaimed. “Alex, we’re in ‘Starboardia’!”
His excitement was cut short when they heard footsteps nearby. A dozen
female pirates surrounded Alex and Conner, and they didn’t look friendly.
The pirates pointed their swords and rifles at the twins.
“Well, well, well,” said a woman with an eye patch. “Look what we have
here.”
“What are you two scallywags doing in the middle of the sea?” asked a
woman with enormous lips. “Too young to be in the navy, too fair to be
pirates.”
Conner almost stepped on a pirate behind him and jumped. Having no
legs, the pirate walked on her hands and held a dagger with her teeth.
“My guess is they were stowaways!” the legless pirate said. “I’m
surprised the sharks didn’t find them first!”
Conner couldn’t believe his characters were living and breathing before
his eyes. The women were just as rough, dirty, and sunburned as he had
imagined them. He grinned from ear to ear and jumped up and down.
“I’m so happy to see you guys!” he said.
The pirates tilted their heads at him like confused puppies. No one had
ever been happy to see them before.
“Guys, it’s me!” Conner said. “I’m Conner Bailey!”
The pirates raised their eyebrows and scratched their heads—should they
know who he was?
“Who?” asked a pirate with a round, flat face.
“Oh, come on.” Conner laughed. “I’m the author!”
“Author of what?” asked a pirate with bare feet.
“Of this story,” he said. “I created this ocean, I created this ship, and I
created all of you. Do you really not recognize me?”
Conner thought for sure it would have clicked by now, but the pirates still
stared at him awkwardly, just as perplexed as before.
“He’s been marooned for too long—the boy’s gone mad,” said a pirate
with a peg leg, and the other pirates nodded in agreement.
Conner was getting frustrated. “I’m not crazy,” he said. “Look, where is
Auburn Sally? Let me talk to her. I’m sure she’ll straighten this whole thing
out. This is my own fault—I should have written you guys to be smarter.”
The pirates stopped looking puzzled and began staring daggers at him.
Alex covered her face and let out a sigh—this wasn’t going to be as easy as
her brother thought.
“Oooooh, Captain,” the pirate with the eye patch called. “There’s
someone down here who’d like to have a word with you!”
Suddenly, a woman did a backflip off the upper deck and landed directly
in front of the twins. She wore a large black hat, a long brown coat, tall boots,
and she had a sword and pistol attached to her thick belt. Alex knew this was
Auburn Sally from the minute she laid eyes on her. If her acrobatics weren’t
enough to give it away, the captain looked exactly like Goldilocks. The only
difference in their features was the captain’s long locks of auburn hair.
“Sally!” Conner said like he was seeing an old friend—because,
technically, he was. He stepped toward the captain to give her a hug, but
Auburn Sally quickly drew her pistol and aimed it at his head.
“Am I supposed to know you, boy?” Auburn Sally asked.
Conner was shocked by the treatment he was receiving from his own
characters. He had expected a warm and gracious welcome, but instead the
heroine of his story was holding a gun to his head. Without him none of them
would even exist! He wondered if this was what an underappreciated parent
felt like.
He held his hands up and backed away from the pistol. “Okay, time out!”
he said. “Everyone just calm down and let me explain! My name is Conner
Bailey, and this is my sister, Alex. I know this is hard to believe, but I’m your
creator! We are living in a short story I wrote for my eighth-grade English
class!”
Auburn Sally looked at him with more perplexity than that of all her crew
added together. “He’s got yellow fever,” she said. “Prepare the plank! We
need to get him off the ship at once!”
“I’m not sick, either!” Conner said. “Fine! If you don’t believe me, I’ll
prove it!”
He walked around the circle of women, pointing at each pirate.
“That’s Winking Wendy, Fish-Lips Lucy, Somersault Sydney, PancakeFace Patty, Stinky-Feet Phoebe, and that’s Peg-Leg Peggy,” he said.
“I prefer Margret,” said the pirate with the peg leg.
“Fine, Margret,” Conner said, and rolled his eyes. “In the back, that’s
High-Tide Tabitha, Catfish Kate, Too-Much-Rum Ronda, Big-Booty Bertha,
Not-So-Jolly Joan, and up in the crow’s nest, that’s Siren Sue. Your captain
is Auburn Sally, this ship is called the Dolly Llama, and you’re all searching
the Caribbean for buried treasure!”
Conner crossed his arms confidently and waited for their apologies. The
pirates were startled by how much he knew. They all looked at their captain,
waiting to see how she would respond.
“There’s only one explanation for how a young man we’ve never met
before could possibly know so much,” Auburn Sally said. “He’s a warlock!
Tie him and his sister up! We’ll burn them at the stake on the next island we
find!”
Before they knew it, the twins’ backpacks were yanked off and they were
pushed against the mainmast. The pirates wrapped ropes around their bodies,
binding their torsos to the ship. Conner was so mad, he turned bright red.
“Let us go or you’ll be sorry!” he yelled. “Just wait until I get home! I’m
going to write a sequel where you all get shipwrecked and have to eat your
boots to survive!”
The pirates laughed at his attempts to scare them. Winking Wendy pulled
the ropes even tighter just to spite him.
“Keep it up, Wendy! We’ll see who’s laughing when I have a seagull peck
out your other eye!” Conner warned. “Alex, can you believe this?”
“How did you expect them to react?” she asked. “What would you do if a
guy showed up out of nowhere and told us we were characters in his story?”
“I would punch him in the face for making everything so damn difficult!”
he said. “Alex, you’ve got to do something! Zap them with a sleeping spell,
turn them into sea horses—anything!”
“No!” Alex yelled. “I’ve been asking you for days if you needed any help
planning, and you told me you had everything under control! Well, so far we
almost drowned, we narrowly missed being crushed by a ship, and now we’re
being captured by your pirates! You and I have different definitions of under
control!”
“Alex, don’t be a child!” Conner said.
“Grow up, Conner!” she said. “This is your mess—you clean it up!”
“Fine, I will!” he yelled. “I don’t need you or your stupid magic! I’ll find
a way out of this myself!”
Although Alex and Conner were tied up right next to each other, they
each pretended the other wasn’t there and pouted in silence.
A strong ocean breeze began clearing the mist and uncovered the sun.
Soon the ship had a breathtaking view of the ocean surrounding it. There was
nothing to see but the bright blue Caribbean Sea for miles around them.
Captain Auburn Sally returned to the upper deck and wrapped her hands
around the large helm. She looked out at the open water and a radiant smile
spread across her face. There was nothing keeping her back and no one to
stop her; she was surrounded by an abundance of freedom and possibilities.
Conner remembered writing about that expression—it was the expression he
always wished the real Goldilocks could have more often.
“Once again, it’s a beautiful day to be a pirate,” Auburn Sally said to her
crew. “Ladies, lower the sales!”
The twins looked up, expecting the sails above them to come down and
fill with the ocean air. Instead, Siren Sue peeked out of the crow’s nest with a
treasure chest full of scarves, jewelry, hooks, and weapons. The other pirates
gathered below her with hands full of gold coins.
“You heard the captain—time to lower the sales!” Siren Sue announced.
“For a limited time, everything is half off! Scarves are two coins, earrings are
four coins, necklaces are six coins, and the rifles are eight coins! Get your
accessories while the sales are low!”
Siren Sue sold off the items to the pirates below until there was nothing
left in her chest. The women ogled their new purchases and showed them off
to one another. It absolutely baffled Alex, and when she glanced at Conner,
he looked just as confused as she did.
“I don’t understand what’s happening,” he said. “I never wrote that.”
“Did you mean to write lower the sails? Like the normal sails on a ship?”
Alex asked.
“Oops,” Conner said. “I must have spelled it wrong.”
To his relief, once the sales were over, the pirates lowered the sails, too.
They were made from cream-colored cloth, the exact color of Porridge’s coat.
They filled with the ocean breeze, and the Dolly Llama sailed into the
horizon.
Auburn Sally turned the ship’s wheel back and forth as she guided her
vessel through the rough waters. She kept a watchful eye on the entire
horizon around them. The longer the ship sailed, the more a familiar
expression grew on her face—one that the twins had seen Goldilocks wear
many times when they’d first met her. The captain seemed a little sad, like
she was hoping something would appear in the distance, but it never came.
Conner recognized this face, too, and began to worry.
“Oh no,” he said. “We’re getting close to the part of the story when the
navy shows up.”
“How can you tell?” Alex asked.
“From the way Auburn Sally is looking out over the ocean longingly,” he
said. “The pirates are about to get company.”
Like clockwork, Siren Sue climbed down from the crow’s nest in a panic.
“Captain!” she shouted. “Look, in the east! A ship from the British Navy
is approaching!”
Auburn Sally quickly unfolded a long telescope and scanned the eastern
horizon. Alex and Conner squinted and could barely see a small speck
moving in the distance. The captain smiled as she spotted the ship—this was
what she had been hoping for.
“It looks like Admiral Jacobson has finally caught up with us,” Auburn
Sally announced to her crew.
“Any orders, Captain?” Winking Wendy asked.
“I’m tired of playing the admiral’s game of cat and mouse,” the captain
said. “Hoist the sails and prepare for battle!”
The pirates all saluted her and went to work right away. They loaded the
cannons on deck and sharpened their swords. The sails were rolled up and the
ship slowed down, allowing the admiral’s ship to gain on them. The small
speck the twins saw in the distance quickly grew into an enormous ship twice
the size of the Dolly Llama. Soon they could make out a British flag waving
from the tallest mast and the ship’s name painted along its side: the Royal
Tantrum.
While the pirates scurried around the deck preparing for battle, the captain
gazed at herself in a compact mirror. Auburn Sally applied lipstick and blush,
she brushed her hair to give it extra volume, and she wiped off all the
smudges on her clothes. The captain wasn’t getting ready for combat; she
was getting ready for a date!
